A Dose Of Honesty We talk of positivityA dose of the opposite...Is fine by me. We are creatures of bothTo be too one-way... Is stupidity inclined. Negative one minute positive nextAre you one or the other like meNow it’s time to be honest. A Dram Of Hope A dram of hopeis drunk moresweetly than acask of despair. A Life Coach A life coachEncouragesFlowersTo attract bees. From the hiveShe directsBy wagglingHer tail. If onlyShe couldDirect themTo her flowers. A Long Lost Refrain Spare us from your painWe look out the windowpaneThe whole of nature is out thereIt is better prepared without fearWhen we all cry out from insideScreaming out our pain like incoming tidesSpare us your pain it's a long lost refrainSongs of the past never last for the insane. A Refugee War came to herShe had to move onA refugee...No one cares.Should they? Adrift In The Sea Of Life Casting an anchorIt sank in the sea of lifeNever to reach the bottomAdrift, not knowingWhere it would take us. Amorphous Mass Of Beings We parlay they as someone realDo we know their eyesWhere they hideAmorphous mass of beingsAll seeing, knowingDefined by usThe omnibus. Beacon In The Cosmos Travelling alone.....EarthThat light in the darkA beacon in the cosmosGoing nowhere, thereFixed by gravityFor eternitySpinning its lightOur home for life. Black And White Wings Black and whiteWings flappingSinging on a rockOn the shoreAt dawn togetherNature naturalObserved today. Bridges Of Faith Crossing all bridges of FaithWe must look below... Where nature's waters flowAt the close of dayWe see the dark cosmosIts light flows from the Big Bang. Crossing all bridges of FaithWe must examine human knowledge... Examining all fossils over millions of yearsWe know how humankind was evolvedFrom Mother Nature's primordial swampUnicellar to multicellularHuman Beings arrivedSome two hundred millennia past. Combining all bridges of FaithWe must see...That they have loved to invent godsFor every known occurrenceBased on lack of knowledgeTo supplement unknowns. Brotherhood Of Women A man is a manWoman a womanTogether oneA human being. Lifegivers togetherAdvancing humankindFrom the beginning. A woman is a womanMan a manDo not dictateOne to the other. Brothers and sistersSisterhood of manBrotherhood of women. Carrying Sorrow All the sorrow she carriesLeaking into her destinyGoing where she goesThere is no escape. Casino Of Life In the Casino of LifeWe are all playersSome think they are winnersLosers think they are losers. Winners or losersLife takes all...No one ever escapes aliveThis is the house rule. Certainty Created Love creates love with certaintyNo doubt appears in its wakeIt is there without fear, tremblingFull of feeling in its kindnessFelt inside resisting all senseKnowing only its kind, seeing blindWoven in a carpet for all to seeSatisfied by its presence inviolateIn its intensity creates desireTo kiss and hug forever and ever. Circle Of Dreams Into the circle of dreams they cameFlailing apparitions ready to danceIn untamed emptinessA ghostly sight in moonlightFirefly-like turned inside outDancing lights of nightDelighting night in her nightgownGoing up and down all aroundPinpoint pointing intermittentlyWispy wispsAs night was eaten by dawn.Where did they go? Circus Of Life Three frisky squirrelsJuggling nutsIn the circus of life. Climbing Upon Our Dreams Into the flames of darknessWe cast every dreamSighing inside without speaking. Whence comes the echoesIs it our past or futureWe know not which. Climbing upon our dreamsThere are beams that shineThis is where we are happy. But for how long? Cold Stare Of Winter The cold stare of winterFreezes window panesSo we cannot see outside. Colors Of Life Life sings the song of beingHere we all start seeingEverything coming our waySpending and consuming our daysReaching out for all to touchNothing appears to be too much. Every flower has color, its bloomUntil the night of its gloomThe brightness of life soon fadesEach day accumulated turns grayA life filled with music and songWhen exposed to its end is not long. Contemplate The Night Black cat watched the moonOn a branch in its shadowLife had been bad since noonOne meow was enough to knowThat she was purred-offTime to contemplate the nightMaybe after a bite. Cosmic Choristers In the night of darknessLit by thoughts of beyondImagination flies cosmically. Life the luster of every star.Have we we all come from afarShining on all other life forms. As the dawn greets daylightWe hear cosmic choristersSeemingly, coming from dying stars. Crater Of Sorrows There is no midnight in my heartAll time has moved on to tomorrowCreating a crater for my sorrowsInside I am alive but falling apartAs the song birds sing their songsI do not know where my heart belongsWhen you see me I will always smileTake me not at face value I am a lie. Creating Life After Death Nobody gets out of life aliveDeath takes her time to arrive. We cannot survive life if deadThose fortunate minds take all. Relying on others they have beliefsCreating their own life after death. No one has ever and will never confirmThat a soul has arrived that is not infirm. Life after death is all crafted illusionThere is no need to be sucked into confusion. Destination Predetermined In this illusion we call lifeThere are nights and daysThat come after and before, followingIn each we are travellingTravellers with our bags packedOur destination predetermined. Like those illusionistWho created their lives before usFrom nothing we came into life's gameGiven a name we are lameInto this life we came without blameNow it is time to create, gather allAround our delusions all illusions. Discordant Dreams Discordant dreams are what they seemFairy floss hurriedly consumedWaiting there to appear unrelatedDelivered at any time without rhymeLetting whispering mists insist realityReal reeled back to begin anewSome other time in a fit often refinedTravelling with travellers across open skiesHopeful and joyful they are intertwined. Divorce Divorce is a horseRunning away saddledTo appear on a racecourseRidden by another jockey. Don't Panic! Don't panic!Your life is hereOn automaticFrom day to day. When it hits a bumpShock sets inKnocking you for sixThen reality hits. It will be hereTomorrow as usualAnd thereafterHold that buttonUntil it is needed. Meanwhile lay backYou are on trackTo continue to attackLife without worrying. Dork From Cork There was a dork from CorkShe was very fond of porkOff to market she rodeSaw a sausage on the roadAte it heartedly with a fork. Dreaming A Dream He dreams a dream, it seemsWriting to his emptinessChest full of hopeThat one day...Maybe, one day, soonHe will receive a letterThat fulfills his efforts. Dressed By Age At the apogee of our flightFinally, we are here. We ask pathetically, wherehas our time gone? Days of action, inaction,living and loving. Dressed by our age we engagestill flying to, albeit slowly. Will our sorrows be full of morrowsExpressed in the time borrowed. Dressed By Life Dressed by lifeSo many colorsUndressed. Edge Of Existence The song of life is oursIts verses we sing aloneLives short or long belongAlways inside we must travelLife is there to unravelThe world exists in our yearsOnly because we are hereWe are life it is ours to devourHour by hour, it is now, we bowOnce life departs there is noneThe edge of existence is defined. Eking Out Time We are our dreams of tomorrowToday we are left with time borrowedYesterday we played fretting timeNow, is the hour we devourEking out the time we have left. Endear Each Day Life belongs to its own songSustained by each of its versesSome are worse or simply perverseAll have pulsating rhythmsComing from the heart to the organsBreathing air we are hereInfused in the rate of our declineIn inclination there is participationAs the songs of life are syncopationsHeard in the trees the birds sing longEncouraging every song to traverse, hearThe years that we are putting awayCome so quickly as we playSwallowing our time is the chimeThat we should endear each day. Epic Poem Life Every life is an epic poemUnwritten but expressed lightFull of love, pathos and hope. Dressed by nature at dawnWaiting for a life to be bornThe new day awaits its call. The windfall of life, its fruitsAll roots take hold, life is boldEvery stanza holds its promise. Into life with its rhythm and proseAll fruits fall to be eaten by lifeFinally reappearing in its own anthology. Every God Every god has its dayIn the mindsOf those who work and play. Everything About Nothing ReligionsConcentrateOn afterlife. Never, everKnowingOne. Draws faithfulWho want toKnow all. Humans loveEverythingThat explainsNothing. Excesses Of Youth Foretold Let youth's excessesRun unthinkingly; fast Into middle age, apaceHolding everything in Until old age's faceTrying not to succumb To excesses of youthExpressed in middle age. Exhausting Our Years We have exhausted our yearsThey have brought us hereHow many more may we storeThis is the question we imploreNo one can give a definte answerIt depends solely on our chancesBeing more by increasing our score. Face Of Destiny The face of destinyTurns so slowlyTo see reality. Faceless Faces Faceless faces face usNot seeing or knowingOne from the otherMorphing over our timeTo an amorphous crowdChattering cheeks speakInto the smartphonesThat answer us back. Facing Mortality To face mortalityWe envy immortalityDressed in nakednessEscape is hopeless. We face mortalityShe points her fingerFollow me human oneCome to your finalityJump into eternity. Faith Is Our Hope Hope is the repository for faithFaith is where we place our hopeTogether they live in our prayers. Life without hope is pointlessTurning everyday into hopelessnessFaith rises above hope in optimism. A positive existence needs persistenceTurning negativity on its headFaith is our hope to live in resistance. Feeling The Soul We of little care...Take our misery fanning itHere, there, everywhere. Just stares from the awareKnowing the sufferingFeeling the soul as told. Pretending life is oursEvery hour thinking...That we are being devoured. From the inside to the outsideIt shows our lack of copingWe of little care, here, everywhere. Finally United In the ties that bindInvisible but designedMagntic, crisscrossingHumankind, cosmic linesUnbelievably refinedNot dependent on beliefIn times of grief appearJust there, out of the airYou stare, finally united. Flaying Sorrows We choose today...To flay our sorrows. Tomorrow, they stayAlways here, aware. When will they go? Flowers Yet To Bloom Those that are unknown to usAre rides that we cannot derideThey are poems to be writtenVerses and songs that we will singUnknown soldiers in upcoming battlesFlowers yet to seed and bloomIn the gloom that are tomorrowsWe will borrow the sun to comeLooking at the moon that has yet no phasesWe will step into the days that roll byRemembering that we will always hearThe heartbeats of those yet to come near. Footprints Over The Past Footprints walkingover our past Indents in the sandsof mind Washed away in memoryleaving grit. From Stone To Sculptures Imagination turns stoneInto upright sculpturesEaster Island statuesLooking out over centuries. Hand Extended The blue crab pincers extendedLooked up at the humanBoth products of evolutionA hand ws extended to kill. Having Been Released Encapsulated forever...From the moment it is written....The PoemCarrying its messageInto tomorrow from yesterdayIts future secure foreverHaving been releasedTo seed others' minds. Home Amongst Stars The sunflower facing the sunDialled every beam it seemedYellow upon yellow. Alone in a field of red peoniesIt was not feeling lonelyHome amongst stars. Every flower bowed to the sunVisited by birds and beesNo one was superior to the other. How Much Knowledge Do We Need How much knowledge is there in humankindTo traverse all seas? Scale all mountaintops from behindClimb every tree in this world of ours. To know every plant that others destroyCure every disease with consummate ease. How much knowledge is enough to knowThat creatures of nature are dying? How much at the hands of dispassionate manIs the environment polluted by his hand? How much knowledge is enough for humankindTo understand that we were all born to die? Never to appear on Earth ever againtThat this is no probability for nature's design How much knowledge is enough to know how toConquer all poverty and inequality? How much do we need to know that we are onehuman family that came out of Africa? When will we know that racism is a lack of knowledgeAbout where we all came from? In Forgiveness In forgiveness... We see sand washed bythe next wave. All footprints are wipedclean. In forgiveness... We are no longer burdenedwith unpleasant thoughts. Now, moving forward not backgaining our freedom. In forgiveness... Perpetrators stay imprisoned for life.The wronged are given the keys. Into the ocean of despair the keys go,only recoverable by a heartfelt apology. In Winter's Dream In winter's dream it is midnightMorning will not appear this yearWith its chant of spring. To extend its season it has reasonAs every season wants to hold onTo its essence that is pleasing. The air has a cold spell to chillArbitrarily turning a season to anotherHas accosted what it is not there. Winter's coat so white is to stare and bareAs nature is not aware and holds its lightFor a much longer season that is so fair. Naked at midnight winter has moonlight awareSpring do not ring your knell wait another nightA little longer to let winter dissipate. Keeping Them Alive Inside, living, multiplyingdividing alive,crowding. There causing fear, colonisingwanting to beeverywhere. Once inside they can never bestopped; doctors musttry. When is enough, enough, the questionmust arise, keeping themalive. Let Death Live Let death live alive nowIt has a memory derivedFrom living a lìfe. Ìn memory we see hòwA life lived is devouredCruely, but kindly now. As we know its undertowIs where we will all goBut we will be remembered. Let Them Know They live in ignoranceUnaware of the starlightThat they shineUpon others. Thinking their reachIs only on their beachLet them know we love themAnd all the light they thow. Let Your Song Out To sing with birdsong, inspiredWe fly with our wings on fire. Treble warbles are ours to bringInto all the songs inside to sing. Life is one great song where we belongIt matters not whether it is long. Every life has a unique song of its ownTo write that song we must not postpone. Sing your song loudly or silently it's yoursBring out every note, let it rain, let it pour. Life Gives And Takes Away Our first and last breathInhaled and expiredLife begins and ends. Life gives no more than othersProvides the air we breatheAnd takes it away. Derived from nothing to somethingEmbraced by all, our footfallsStepping out then not at all. Life Where Is Your Mystery O Life where is your mystery?Creating our histories. Day by day you relay night and dayComing hour by hour devouring time. You say it is ours to spendYet, you are the one that expends. O Life let us live by the truthYou let us borrow time exponentiallyWe at the end can never pay it back. Your totality is our reality; deathHere we cry spare us mortal soulsBeing no mystery you treat all equally. Life's Door Life opens its doorLet's everyone soarWhen the door shutsThen everyone tutsWhy are you so sad? Light That Flourishes The light of loveBurns brightlyAnd rightly soIn all heartsThat flourish. Lighted The Sun In its light the sun spreads joyIt has the heat in its employNe'er coming too soonWe enjoy it well past the noonGiving succor to earth's delightsIt then must disappear into nightWith the moon's yellow glowIt is still there so everyone knows. Lit From Yesterdays O candle shadowy flameYou have no known fameFlicking arcs in the darkLit from all those yesterdaysBecoming unknown tomorrowsBorrowing from yourselfSelfish, sorrowful, wistfulPulling moths to your flame. Loaded With Envy Loaded with envy she expandedLike a buffoon and let goEvery word squeezed outWe were not left in doubtThat all her air has goneWith envy now depletedShe was still a woebegone. Looking For Light In its tune magic escapesFlute-like playing lightTurning it into starlight. The cosmos has all the chordsTurning mysteries inside outWhere light travels vastly. From the beginning with imprecisionBang against bang, unbelievablyA magicians wand creating. In its space the human raceAlone in the depths of darknessLooking for light. Love Is Never The Question To love or not to loveThat is never the questionWhen love offers her handIt can never be refusedAs life must be livedAccording to what is offeredJust as rain cannot be stoppedLove casts her spells that we feelInside it causes palpitationsIt cannot ever be denied. Mirror City Mirror city here, thereReflections in mindCars spewing gassesWind, rain, trains, busesAccidents, ambulances, whistlesPolice, guns, sirens, helicoptersWe see what we want to seeReflections in mindStrangers coming and goingHugs, kisses, near missesReflections of civilisation. Moving On In Forgiveness In forgiveness... We cleanse trangressorsWho did us wrong. In forgiveness... Opens thw way forwardTo continueWithout burden. In forgiveness... We know we were wrongedYet, we feel strongerFor the tasks ahead. In forgiveness... We are truly sorryAs we recogniseThat humans are weak. My Popularity Lifter Ode to you wispy wispI owe you a beer for your liftLifted above my competenceI feel like I'm incompetentNevertheless, on my dressI shall impress a broachThat will show wispinessA true wraith figmentOf the unimaginable. Nature's Magic Waving a wandOver the EarthNature's creationIs beyond imaginationAnd any human's kenTo paint or writeWith a brush or penAbout the sheer beautyAnd delight of its magic. Nothing Is There Wrapped in its historyA mystery to othersTo itself an enigmaUnwapped at deathNothing is there. O Human Imagination O human imagination!Believe anything in faith.The thoughts of others.Grasping at straws opens doorsInside we see:......Crucifixes......Stained glass windows......Altars......Figments of imagination......Peace....... Ocean Of Despair A painted ocean, blueTwo sailing shipsSailing before the windSuddely, the sky darkensThunderous roars roil the airAs lightening is everywhereThe sea from white created wavesIs alive with doomOne ship is swallowedAs the other, sails tornIs thrown onwards to the edgeIts very existence teeteringOn the ocean of despair. One Arm Two Hands The musicianOne arm two handsPlayed in a bandTrumpet and clarinetTimed perfectlyEach cheek puffed outIncredible but true. Only One What is one lifeOne of billionsSinging one songNever number oneOnly One. Only Poetry Only poetry can buildIts own realityOut of wordsThat are never heard. Our Design Is Nature's Creation Nature is our solace and joyLooking all around it is hereFor all to see, to be aware. To notice a little birdFlying here and thereAlive in our thoughts, stare. Nature exists everywhere, nearIt is not ours to own or fearWe are part of its matrix. Our design is in its creationLet us marvel with elationAs we are woven in its fabric. Our Own Rhyme To Reason We all walk through lifeThere is no pattern for the lastAs no shoe will fit allA life on display is not boughtIt must be taught its own walkThis is our talk uniquely statedWhere we find our own rhyme to reasonAs we travel through our own seasonsLife is life short or longIn it we we all belong. Our Song Inside this song we belongedEach word brings tears...This was ours over the yearsTogether we listenedTo the melody withinNow, we are left aloneJust sitting at homeRemembering. Passionless Fruit What is love that is full of careLiving as if it stands and staresPretending it is what we needWhen it has never ridden a steed. What is love that is full of careWhen it has never been anywhere nearDevoid of life it never knew youEscaped without your view. What is love that is full of careThat never faced wear and tearNever grew young or old alivePassionless fruit rotten inside. What is love that is full of careIf love has not reached inside awareNot ever received how can it be givenGiving love must be natural not driven. Playing Midnight's Tune Sequenced sequin starlightPierces each heartColored golden, silverDelivered right. Delightful nights held tightHeaven's swoon openedInto the rooms of starlightFestooned explosive lights. Holding our breath we marvelAt all that opens aboveCosmic parades without shadesPlaying midnight's tune. Poetry Is All Or Nothing We Know Poetry lives in the shade betweenOur dreams and realityFantasies and depths of despairLove and hate measuredWhere Poets frame insightsBringing light into shadowsFilling spaces that were emptyCovering all those naked thoughtsGiving strength out of weaknessesInspiring nature to show her colorsTalking to the stars asking them to shinePoetry is all or nothing we know. Poet's Eye The Poet's eyeSees lifeDifferently. Focussed withinWithoutAll about. Every thoughtDirectedIn words. Poets Hear Its Call Poets hear its callDancing in heartsAnnounced or unannouncedGaily running through daysThey have no choicePoetry is there to stay. Presumptuous Writers Those presumptuous writersTell us something that we should knowNot interested in their readersThey think everytime they blink. Read And Enjoy Poetry is all and nothingIt appears out of thin airJust there for the awareRead and enjoy! Receiving What Is Given Every lesson life teachesMakes room for anotherUntil you are teachingLife from your experienceIt will be receptiveTo receive all that is given. Relevance Deprivation Therapy Life is so fullThe relevantWearing sports gearSome with flairOthers like underwearNow, we all likeTo be relevantTo ourselves and othersSister, brother, mothersEnrol today of all daysGather your shortsCome to the gymAnd receive yourRelevance deprivationTherapy. Screaming Inspiration When I scream Inspiration!The she-devil appears. What do you want, she sayssarcastically? I don't know what you mean,I have never heard the word. Don't you mean perspiration,wiping her brow? I know now is not the time to write. Turning the computer off, I go to bed. Showing The Way In political correctnessRight showing wrongSelf-appointed arbitersShowing us the way. Solely One I have been thinkingOn this cloud of mineThat we are really aloneNo matter what they sayYet, our hearts are full. We are pulled into the seaWhere we see others like usLiving here and thereFull of love and fearsYet, our hearts are full. Riding the trains with ghostsWe are all the hosts togetherOur colored eyes see the worldFrom inside to the outsideYet, our hearts are full. Life sets each of us apartWe can never ever be anotherFor we are always solely oneHaving won our freedom and prisonYet, our hearts are full. Solutions To Puzzlement In its shade life appearedDerived out of nothingnessBringing its human form. Some deformed not yet informedCreations evolved to be solvedSolutions to its own puzzlement. Life O give us Life; now extantWhere do we fit where do we goInside to the outside it is here. Sorrowful Love In the window of tomorrowwill be all our sorrows. Seen and felt they liveopenly in the seas of grief. Love as bright as a new daywill come into play. Kissing eyes that have seenall. Sorrow and love ride each otheras they are thieves. Taking from each other theysmother breaching our tomorrows. Spirited Bird Spirited bird...Addresses an azure skyWings clap every cloudGliding with every breeze. Spirited bird...Against all conceivable oddsMeasures life in flightLifting all spirits. Spirited bird...Colored in rainbow skiesSings songs that belongTo all if only we could hear. Stripped Of Its Glory The sun shinedOn number four Sunglow AvenueThrough the rusty sheets of roof ironA house built before the Depression years. Overlooking the sea...It was not hard to notice the decaySmacked by time and windIt needed paint where there was noneStripped of its gloryA door banged open and shut. Therein lived a family of tenRent was never paidAs a dollar was needed for the gas meterLife was expressed in laughter and tears. Suffering With Children Populate or perishWe hear the callFrom up high. It is right to callThose with a needAll bleeding fools. Suffering with childrenIs not the only needFor women to heed. Those with professionsMust use all they haveTo grab like a man. The days where eggsMust be fertilisedAre long gone. A woman like a manMust choose their wayNot sway to other fools. Tear Of Fear Every tear of fearForces the heartTo scream. The Dust Of Time In the circle of circularityDrawn by the mathematics of timeAn equation of relationships. We are the result, blow-insFrom the beginning of everythingSteeped in our life. Creatures of reason and unreasonSeeking eternal lifeRelying on others to fill our minds. Eternity promised from those who knewRepeated ad nauseum in every pewClosing the circle for the righteous. The cosmic winds blow all in and outThe dust of time dissolves unrealitiesBlowing all there with their fears. Overarching reality is hard to swallowWhen others point to scripts full of mythsBelieve what others say no thinking needed. The Poet's Eye The poet's eyeSees life differentlySalvador Dali of words. Painting ships in oceansFloating in lighted skiesAcross the purple pink cosmos Coloring wings that singRevealing what lies beneathTwixt reality and unreality. An artist holding stringsPulling existence and non-existenceTogether as if everything matters. Thinking Common Thoughts When the President is commonWe think common thoughtsUndermining the Constitution. Where is the power now, this hourHas it been diluted by HimA crass usurper? This Poetry Of Mine This poetry of mineHas no way to be definedIt belongs only to meYou think of the seaIt is my ocean of commotionBut so much moreIt opens doors...To the mysteries of my lifeCovering all my strifeThe way I live and thinkMy bio that you don't knowNeither do I, it will appearMaybe tomorrow or next yearWait and see just like meTogether, my readers I will leadInto the wonderland of lifeYou, too, can see yourselfJust read all my poetryIt is here for us bothInside each line we are one mind. This Queer World In this queer world of oursHumans are swelling out nowGrowing so obese with easeIn all corners fatties sneezeLarger than life they travelHave you ever heard the babbleNow, I'm not adverse to foodBut not in every kind of moodMore than most they eat toastSmother in butter they boastLife ain't what it used to beWhen we went for a walk to seeIt is the great exception todayNo one wants to go and playOn phones they take images and talkThen to look they go to FacebookSitting down is so fashionableIt's a wonder they can sit at allBottoms so wide they just can't hideWobbles are not novel on the outside. Threadbare Existence In poverty, impoverishedThe poor open their doorsInside we see what they see. A threadbare existence livedIt is theirs alone to shareWe feel sympathetic but pathetic. How can we solve the world's problemsSo vast and deep, unsolvableIn poverty they must sleep. Throw All Religions To The Wind Throw all religions to the wind... In all they are certain of sinNo matter how old the future is foretold. If not followed the sinner is swallowedBy the words of high they will not reach the sky. Life of the recalcitrant has no hope of redemptionThere are no exceptions in the Words that are foretold. No use to dismiss what is said, eventually all are deadUnder the spell of every word that has been bled. Time From Time Stranded on the edgeOf the beginningLooking at the music. Time's shadows expandPast every earthly personThose known and unknown. The music has the beatReverbrating around soundTaking time from time. To Know Is Not To Know To know is not to know what followsAfter the dawn will the sun rise? To know is not to know what followsWill we be alive tomorrow? Let the sun rise tomorrowWill our hearts be full of love or sorrow? Totalled In Finality When all is lost; accostedGrief has no belief in relief. In its finality we are totalledThe sum of one is enough for everyone. Life gives all stairs to travel up, downIn its babble we must hear those tears. Triumph Of Mankind The light of the sunBelongs to no oneAs the air we breatheIs it not also free? We exist as a speciesTotally dependent on natureYet, we shout to the moonLook at our superiorityThe triumph of mankind. We are bent to the willOf the natural worldSwept away by avalanchesDrowned by the high tide. Two By Two Love takes away painOf being one for oneKissed by reflections. Another comes into viewSeeing what we cannot seeYou of you is in its view. Solitude is amplified by twoIn love and being lovedTwo by two. Unable To Vocalise He a paragon of his faithSpoke only in clichesSuccumbed to throat cancerUnable to vocalise. Warmongers In the Roman arena of lifeWe the spectators watch strifeIn come the warmongers issuing threatsNuclear swords raised ready to strikeThis was our past and futureUncivilized or civilized we are apprisedTanks crush the lions into squashed rugsBlood wiped off the arena, hyenas laughWe hear the roar of dissidentsAs the warplanes drown out the noise. Waterfall One word is heardSeveral a waterfallForever flowing. We Have Heard We have heardThe righteous...Words...GodsWere derivedFrom not everBeing alive! We Rocked Night Nearly thirty...Brownish hair rightLippy pink like inkSquirted Two RosesLotsa swells hereShortish mauve skirtBared legs, sexyRed high heels. Down at the jointWe rocked nightFlashing lightsGuys looking for guysGirls fretting...More and more liquorDrugged mugsMorning came too soon. Gunfight banged lightOne helluva Saturday night. We Talk Of Time We talk of time that's fineIt does not speak to usA human construct, measuringGoing from one second to anotherCreating structure in livesIts beat is heard all dayInto night and dawnWe are unable to see it disappearIn microseconds the past occursMaking us continually living thereChimes are the time gone foreverNever recovered as we discoverIn no time at all our life is gone. What An Ado The time has comeTo be an old maidGreat, on my kneesScubbing if you pleaseTell me what to doAs I am stupoThe bath you sayToilet firstIt has just burstWith all thatStuff coming outOf that refined mouthThe time has comeTo succumb to destinyWhat an ado. What We All Know When cliches meet clichesThey unite gaily unawareThey are here and everywhereExpressing what we all know. When All Colors Have Gone When all colors have goneThe song of life ceases to beMemories are shaped by othersShadows that pass by insideThe garden of flowers wiltedEmptiness surrounds happy soundsThis is where life was once found. When Will It End Life a mysteryFrom beginningTo end. Stares at eternityEarth to theCosmos. Where did it beginWhen will itEnd? Where We Live Reaching inside, lookingOur mysteries lie behindThe centre of being, lifeThis is where we live. Thinking obliquely, so uniquelyEverything we know; pastThe light on our hill in the darkThis is where we live. Every experience forming memoriesFlashing upon our screens in betweenWithout any prompting...This is where we live. Romancing our souls, feelings liftedTaking it in our stride, full of hopeCrying out our painThis is where we live. Whoosh! Zoom! I'm inclined to be a witchO yes and also a.....So what you sayWell it does matterTo those we knowI'm not happy being a.....But a witch yes sireeYou can see I have a black catAnd half a dozen broom sticksWhen the full moon appearsIt's my time to fly off the handle............Woosh!I'm off for a ride of my lifeCat handles her seat wellYellow moon above me, cat and broom............Zoom! Why O Why That black cat upon a branchLooks at the orange moonA shadow in its lightLike everyone we see at nightWhy is she thereWhy O why are we? Wings Of Destiny On the wings of destinyCarried high above seasTo be what life promisedWhen we are on our knees. Life can be cruel or kindDestiny gives every chanceTo drop hope with such easeGrowing to prosper everyday. Destiny takes all on a rideFrom its beginning to the endTaking a promise to fruitionSeeming to do it with precision Winter Wonderland Trees heavy with snowDrooping branchesReflect winter's show. Cruel winds bite warmthAs we ski in wonderPast and onwards. Frozen in time a pictureIn our mindsA winter wonderland. Wounding Words She was nasty and capable of stabbingthose she disliked with wounding words. Finally, her nature left her susceptibleto cancer inside. Dying making the sign of the cross shewas unable to forment another bad thought. She was remembered for her disgustingbehaviour by those who fell under her wrath. A Cliff Dwelling There sandy seems the golden skyAnd golden seems the sandy plain.No habitation meets the eyeUnless in the horizon rim,Some halfway up the limestone wall,That spot of black is not a stainOr shadow, but a cavern hole,Where someone used to climb and crawlTo rest from his besetting fears.I see the callus on his soulThe disappearing last of himAnd of his race starvation slim,Oh years ago - ten thousand years.  A Dream Pang I had withdrawn in forest, and my songWas swallowed up in leaves that blew alway;And to the forest edge you came one day(This was my dream) and looked and pondered long,But did not enter, though the wish was strong:You shook your pensive head as who should say,‘I dare not—too far in his footsteps stray—He must seek me would he undo the wrong. Not far, but near, I stood and saw it allBehind low boughs the trees let down outside;And the sweet pang it cost me not to callAnd tell you that I saw does still abide.But ’tis not true that thus I dwelt aloof,For the wood wakes, and you are here for proof. A Minor Bird I have wished a bird would fly away,And not sing by my house all day; Have clapped my hands at him from the doorWhen it seemed as if I could bear no more. The fault must partly have been in me.The bird was not to blame for his key. And of course there must be something wrongIn wanting to silence any song. A Passing Glimpse To Ridgely TorrenceOn Last Looking into His 'Hesperides' I often see flowers from a passing carThat are gone before I can tell what they are. I want to get out of the train and go backTo see what they were beside the track. I name all the flowers I am sure they weren't;Not fireweed loving where woods have burnt- Not bluebells gracing a tunnel mouth-Not lupine living on sand and drouth. Was something brushed across my mindThat no one on earth will ever find? Heaven gives it glimpses only to thoseNot in position to look too close. A Patch Of Old Snow There's a patch of old snow in a cornerThat I should have guessedWas a blow-away paper the rainHad brought to rest. It is speckled with grime as ifSmall print overspread it,The news of a day I've forgotten --If I ever read it. A Peck of Gold Dust always blowing about the town,Except when sea-fog laid it down,And I was one of the children toldSome of the blowing dust was gold. All the dust the wind blew highAppeared like god in the sunset sky,But I was one of the children toldSome of the dust was really gold. Such was life in the Golden Gate:Gold dusted all we drank and ate,And I was one of the children told,'We all must eat our peck of gold.' A Prayer In Spring Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day;And give us not to think so far awayAs the uncertain harvest; keep us hereAll simply in the springing of the year. Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white,Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night;And make us happy in the happy bees,The swarm dilating round the perfect trees. And make us happy in the darting birdThat suddenly above the bees is heard,The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill,And off a blossom in mid air stands still. For this is love and nothing else is love,The which it is reserved for God aboveTo sanctify to what far ends He will,But which it only needs that we fulfil. A Question A voice said, Look me in the starsAnd tell me truly, men of earth,If all the soul-and-body scarsWere not too much to pay for birth. A Time To Talk When a friend calls to me from the roadAnd slows his horse to a meaning walk,I don't stand still and look aroundOn all the hills I haven't hoed,And shout from where I am, What is it?No, not as there is a time to talk.I thrust my hoe in the mellow ground,Blade-end up and five feet tall,And plod: I go up to the stone wallFor a friendly visit. A Winter Eden A winter garden in an alder swamp,Where conies now come out to sun and romp,As near a paradise as it can beAnd not melt snow or start a dormant tree. It lifts existence on a plane of snowOne level higher than the earth below,One level nearer heaven overhead,And last year's berries shining scarlet red. It lifts a gaunt luxuriating beastWhere he can stretch and hold his highest featOn some wild apple tree's young tender bark,What well may prove the year's high girdle mark. So near to paradise all pairing ends:Here loveless birds now flock as winter friends,Content with bud-inspecting. They presumeTo say which buds are leaf and which are bloom. A feather-hammer gives a double knock.This Eden day is done at two o'clock.An hour of winter day might seem too shortTo make it worth life's while to wake and sport. Acceptance When the spent sun throws up its rays on cloudAnd goes down burning into the gulf below,No voice in nature is heard to cry aloudAt what has happened. Birds, at least must knowIt is the change to darkness in the sky.Murmuring something quiet in her breast,One bird begins to close a faded eye;Or overtaken too far from his nest,Hurrying low above the grove, some waifSwoops just in time to his remembered tree.At most he thinks or twitters softly, 'Safe!Now let the night be dark for all of me.Let the night bee too dark for me to seeInto the future. Let what will be, be.' Acquainted With The Night I have been one acquainted with the night.I have walked out in rain -  and back in rain.I have outwalked the furthest city light. I have looked down the saddest city lane.I have passed by the watchman on his beatAnd dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. I have stood still and stopped the sound of feetWhen far away an interrupted cryCame over houses from another street, But not to call me back or say good-bye;And further still at an unearthly height,One luminary clock against the sky Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.I have been one acquainted with the night. An Empty Threat I stay;But it isn't as ifThere wasn't always Hudson's BayAnd the fur trade,A small skiffAnd a paddle blade. I can just see my tent pegged,And me on the floor,Cross-legged,And a trapper looking in at the doorWith furs to sell. His name's Joe,Alias John,And between what he doesn't knowAnd won't tellAbout where Henry Hudson's gone,I can't say he's much help;But we get on. The seal yelpOn an ice cake.It's not men by some mistake?No,There's not a soulFor a windbreakBetween me and the North Pole— Except always John-Joe,My French Indian Esquimaux,And he's off setting trapsIn one himself perhaps. Give a headshakeOver so much bayThrown awayIn snow and mistThat doesn't exist, I was going to say,For God, man, or beast's sake,Yet does perhaps for all three. Don't ask JoeWhat it is to him.It's sometimes dimWhat it is to me,Unless it beIt's the old captain's dark fateWho failed to find or force a straitIn its two-thousand-mile coast;And his crew left him where be failed,And nothing came of all be sailed. It's to say, 'You and I—'To such a ghost—You and IOff hereWith the dead race of the Great Auk!'And, 'Better defeat almost,If seen clear,Than life's victories of doubtThat need endless talk-talkTo make them out.' An Old Man's Winter Night All out of doors looked darkly in at himThrough the thin frost, almost in separate stars,That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.What kept his eyes from giving back the gazeWas the lamp tilted near them in his hand.What kept him from remembering what it wasThat brought him to that creaking room was age.He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss.And having scared the cellar under himIn clomping there, he scared it once againIn clomping off; -- and scared the outer night,Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roarOf trees and crack of branches, common things,But nothing so like beating on a box.A light he was to no one but himselfWhere now he sat, concerned with he knew what,A quiet light, and then not even that.He consigned to the moon, such as she was,So late-arising, to the broken moonAs better than the sun in any caseFor such a charge, his snow upon the roof,His icicles along the wall to keep;And slept. The log that shifted with a joltOnce in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house,A farm, a countryside, or if he can,It's thus he does it of a winter night. Asking For Roses A house that lacks, seemingly, mistress and master,With doors that none but the wind ever closes,Its floor all littered with glass and with plaster;It stands in a garden of old-fashioned roses. I pass by that way in the gloaming with Mary;'I wonder,' I say, 'who the owner of those is.''Oh, no one you know,' she answers me airy,'But one we must ask if we want any roses.' So we must join hands in the dew coming coldlyThere in the hush of the wood that reposes,And turn and go up to the open door boldly,And knock to the echoes as beggars for roses. 'Pray, are you within there, Mistress Who-were-you? ''Tis Mary that speaks and our errand discloses.'Pray, are you within there? Bestir you, bestir you!'Tis summer again; there's two come for roses. 'A word with you, that of the singer recalling- Old Herrick: a saying that every maid knows isA flower unplucked is but left to the falling,And nothing is gained by not gathering roses.' We do not loosen our hands' intertwining(Not caring so very much what she supposes) ,There when she comes on us mistily shiningAnd grants us by silence the boon of her roses. Atmosphere Inscription for a Garden Wall Winds blow the open grassy places bleak;But where this old wall burns a sunny cheek,They eddy over it too toppling weakTo blow the earth or anything self-clear;Moisture and color and odor thicken here.The hours of daylight gather atmosphere. Bereft Where had I heard this wind beforeChange like this to a deeper roar?What would it take my standing there for,Holding open a restive door,Looking down hill to a frothy shore?Summer was past and the day was past.Sombre clouds in the west were massed.Out on the porch's sagging floor,Leaves got up in a coil and hissed,Blindly struck at my knee and missed.Something sinister in the toneTold me my secret must be known:Word I was in the house aloneSomehow must have gotten abroad,Word I was in my life alone,Word I had no one left but God. Blue-Butterfly Day It is blue-butterfly day here in spring,And with these sky-flakes down in flurry on flurryThere is more unmixed color on the wingThan flowers will show for days unless they hurry. But these are flowers that fly and all but sing:And now from having ridden out desireThey lie closed over in the wind and clingWhere wheels have freshly sliced the April mire. Bond And Free Love has earth to which she clingsWith hills and circling arms about-Wall within wall to shut fear out.But Thought has need of no such things,For Thought has a pair of dauntless wings. On snow and sand and turn, I seeWhere Love has left a printed traceWith straining in the world's embrace.And such is Love and glad to beBut Thought has shaken his ankles free. Thought cleaves the interstellar gloomAnd sits in Sirius' disc all night,Till day makes him retrace his flightWith smell of burning on every plume,Back past the sun to an earthly room. His gains in heaven are what they are.Yet some say Love by being thrallAnd simply staying possesses allIn several beauty that Thought fares farTo find fused in another star. Brown's Descent Brown lived at such a lofty farmThat everyone for miles could seeHis lantern when he did his choresIn winter after half-past three. And many must have seen him makeHis wild descent from there one night,'Cross lots, 'cross walls, 'cross everything,Describing rings of lantern light. Between the house and barn the galeGot him by something he had onAnd blew him out on the icy crustThat cased the world, and he was gone! Walls were all buried, trees were few:He saw no stay unless he stoveA hole in somewhere with his heel.But though repeatedly he strove And stamped and said things to himself,And sometimes something seemed to yield,He gained no foothold, but pursuedHis journey down from field to field. Sometimes he came with arms outspreadLike wings, revolving in the sceneUpon his longer axis, andWith no small dignity of mien. Faster or slower as he chanced,Sitting or standing as he chose,According as he feared to riskHis neck, or thought to spare his clothes, He never let the lantern drop.And some exclaimed who saw afarThe figures he described with it,&quot;I wonder what those signals are Brown makes at such an hour of night!He's celebrating something strange.I wonder if he's sold his farm,Or been made Master of the Grange.&quot; He reeled, he lurched, he bobbed, he checked;He fell and made the lantern rattle(But saved the light from going out.)So half-way down he fought the battle Incredulous of his own bad luck.And then becoming reconciledTo everything, he gave it upAnd came down like a coasting child. &quot;Well—I—be—&quot; that was all he said,As standing in the river road,He looked back up the slippery slope(Two miles it was) to his abode. Sometimes as an authorityOn motor-cars, I'm asked if IShould say our stock was petered out,And this is my sincere reply: Yankees are what they always were.Don't think Brown ever gave up hopeOf getting home again becauseHe couldn't climb that slippery slope; Or even thought of standing thereUntil the January thawShould take the polish off the crust.He bowed with grace to natural law, And then went round it on his feet,After the manner of our stock;Not much concerned for those to whom,At that particular time o'clock, It must have looked as if the courseHe steered was really straight awayFrom that which he was headed for—Not much concerned for them, I say: No more so than became a man—And politician at odd seasons.I've kept Brown standing in the coldWhile I invested him with reasons; But now he snapped his eyes three times;Then shook his lantern, saying, &quot;Ile's'Bout out!&quot; and took the long way homeBy road, a matter of several miles. But Outer Space But outer Space,At least this far,For all the fussOf the populaceStays more popularThan populous Canis Major The great OverdogThat heavenly beastWith a star in one eyeGives a leap in the east.He dances uprightAll the way to the westAnd never once dropsOn his forefeet to rest.I'm a poor underdog,But to-night I will barkWith the great OverdogThat romps through the dark. Carpe Diem Age saw two quiet childrenGo loving by at twilight,He knew not whether homeward,Or outward from the village,Or (chimes were ringing) churchward,He waited, (they were strangers)Till they were out of hearingTo bid them both be happy.'Be happy, happy, happy,And seize the day of pleasure.'The age-long theme is Age's.'Twas Age imposed on poemsTheir gather-roses burdenTo warn against the dangerThat overtaken loversFrom being overfloodedWith happiness should have it.And yet not know they have it.But bid life seize the present?It lives less in the presentThan in the future always,And less in both togetherThan in the past. The presentIs too much for the senses,Too crowding, too confusing-Too present to imagine. Come In As I came to the edge of the woods,Thrush music -- hark!Now if it was dusk outside,Inside it was dark. Too dark in the woods for a birdBy sleight of wingTo better its perch for the night,Though it still could sing. The last of the light of the sunThat had died in the westStill lived for one song moreIn a thrush's breast. Far in the pillared darkThrush music went --Almost like a call to come inTo the dark and lament. But no, I was out for stars;I would not come in.I meant not even if asked;And I hadn't been. Departmental An ant on the tableclothRan into a dormant mothOf many times his size.He showed not the least surprise.His business wasn't with such.He gave it scarcely a touch,And was off on his duty run.Yet if he encountered oneOf the hive's enquiry squadWhose work is to find out GodAnd the nature of time and space,He would put him onto the case.Ants are a curious race;One crossing with hurried treadThe body of one of their deadIsn't given a moment's arrest-Seems not even impressed.But he no doubt reports to anyWith whom he crosses antennae,And they no doubt reportTo the higher-up at court.Then word goes forth in Formic:'Death's come to Jerry McCormic,Our selfless forager Jerry.Will the special JanizaryWhose office it is to buryThe dead of the commissaryGo bring him home to his people.Lay him in state on a sepal.Wrap him for shroud in a petal.Embalm him with ichor of nettle.This is the word of your Queen.'And presently on the sceneAppears a solemn mortician;And taking formal position,With feelers calmly atwiddle,Seizes the dead by the middle,And heaving him high in air,Carries him out of there.No one stands round to stare.It is nobody else's affairIt couldn't be called ungentleBut how thoroughly departmental Desert Places Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fastIn a field I looked into going past,And the ground almost covered smooth in snow,But a few weeds and stubble showing last. The woods around it have it - it is theirs.All animals are smothered in their lairs.I am too absent-spirited to count;The loneliness includes me unawares. And lonely as it is, that lonelinessWill be more lonely ere it will be less -A blanker whiteness of benighted snowWIth no expression, nothing to express. They cannot scare me with their empty spacesBetween stars - on stars where no human race is.I have it in me so much nearer homeTo scare myself with my own desert places. Design I found a dimpled spider, fat and white,On a white heal-all, holding up a mothLike a white piece of rigid satin cloth --Assorted characters of death and blightMixed ready to begin the morning right,Like the ingredients of a witches' broth --A snow-drop spider, a flower like a froth,And dead wings carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white,The wayside blue and innocent heal-all?What brought the kindred spider to that height,Then steered the white moth thither in the night?What but design of darkness to appall?--If design govern in a thing so small. Devotion The heart can think of no devotionGreater than being shore to ocean -Holding the curve of one position,Counting an endless repetition. Dust in the Eyes If, as they say, some dust thrown in my eyesWill keep my talk from getting overwise,I'm not the one for putting off the proof.Let it be overwhelming, off a roofAnd round a corner, blizzard snow for dust,And blind me to a standstill if it must. Dust Of Snow The way a crowShook down on meThe dust of snowFrom a hemlock tree Has given my heartA change of moodAnd saved some partOf a day I had rued. Evening In A Sugar Orchard From where I lingered in a lull in Marchoutside the sugar-house one night for choice,I called the fireman with a careful voiceAnd bade him leave the pan and stoke the arch:'O fireman, give the fire another stoke,And send more sparks up chimney with the smoke.'I thought a few might tangle, as they did,Among bare maple boughs, and in the rareHill atmosphere not cease to glow,And so be added to the moon up there.The moon, though slight, was moon enough to showOn every tree a bucket with a lid,And on black ground a bear-skin rug of snow.The sparks made no attempt to be the moon.They were content to figure in the treesAs Leo, Orion, and the Pleiades.And that was what the boughs were full of soon. Fire And Ice Some say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I've tasted of desireI hold with those who favor fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice. Fireflies In The Garden Here come real stars to fill the upper skies,And here on earth come emulating flies,That though they never equal stars in size,(And they were never really stars at heart)Achieve at times a very star-like start.Only, of course, they can't sustain the part. Flower-Gathering I left you in the morning,And in the morning glow,You walked a way beside meTo make me sad to go.Do you know me in the gloaming,Gaunt and dusty gray with roaming?Are you dumb because you know me not,Or dumb because you know? All for me And not a questionFor the faded flowers gayThat could take me from beside youFor the ages of a day?They are yours, and be the measureOf their worth for you to treasure,The measure of the little whileThat I've been long away. For Once, Then, Something Others taught me with having knelt at well-curbsAlways wrong to the light, so never seeingDeeper down in the well than where the waterGives me back in a shining surface pictureMe myself in the summer heaven godlikeLooking out of a wreath of fern and cloud puffs.Once, when trying with chin against a well-curb,I discerned, as I thought, beyond the picture,Through the picture, a something white, uncertain,Something more of the depths--and then I lost it.Water came to rebuke the too clear water.One drop fell from a fern, and lo, a rippleShook whatever it was lay there at bottom,Blurred it, blotted it out. What was that whiteness?Truth? A pebble of quartz? For once, then, something. Fragmentary Blue Why make so much of fragmentary blueIn here and there a bird, or butterfly,Or flower, or wearing-stone, or open eye,When heaven presents in sheets the solid hue? Since earth is earth, perhaps, not heaven (as yet)--Though some savants make earth include the sky;And blue so far above us comes so high,It only gives our wish for blue a whet. Gathering Leaves Spades take up leavesNo better than spoons,And bags full of leavesAre light as balloons. I make a great noiseOf rustling all dayLike rabbit and deerRunning away. But the mountains I raiseElude my embrace,Flowing over my armsAnd into my face. I may load and unloadAgain and againTill I fill the whole shed,And what have I then? Next to nothing for weight,And since they grew dullerFrom contact with earth,Next to nothing for color. Next to nothing for use.But a crop is a crop,And who's to say whereThe harvest shall stop? God's Garden God made a beatous gardenWith lovely flowers strown,But one straight, narrow pathwayThat was not overgrown.And to this beauteous gardenHe brought mankind to live,And said: 'To you, my children,These lovely flowers I give.Prune ye my vines and fig trees,With care my flowerets tend,But keep the pathway openYour home is at the end.' Then came another master,Who did not love mankind,And planted on the pathwayGold flowers for them to find.And mankind saw the bright flowers,That, glitt'ring in the sun,Quite hid the thorns of av'riceThat poison blood and bone;And far off many wandered,And when life's night came on,They still were seeking gold flowers,Lost, helpless and alone.  O, cease to heed the glamourThat blinds your foolish eyes,Look upward to the glitterOf stars in God's clear skies.Their ways are pure and harmlessAnd will not lead astray,Bid aid your erring footstepsTo keep the narrow way.And when the sun shines brightlyTend flowers that God has givenAnd keep the pathway openThat leads you on to heaven. Going For Water The well was dry beside the door,And so we went with pail and canAcross the fields behind the houseTo seek the brook if still it ran;Not loth to have excuse to go,Because the autumn eve was fair(Though chill), because the fields were ours,And by the brook our woods were there. We ran as if to meet the moonThat slowly dawned behind the trees,The barren boughs without the leaves,Without the birds, without the breeze. But once within the wood, we pausedLike gnomes that hid us from the moon,Ready to run to hiding newWith laughter when she found us soon. Each laid on other a staying handTo listen ere we dared to look,And in the hush we joined to makeWe heard, we knew we heard the brook. A note as from a single place,A slender tinkling fall that madeNow drops that floated on the poolLike pearls, and now a silver blade. Good Hours I had for my winter evening walk-No one at all with whom to talk,But I had the cottages in a rowUp to their shining eyes in snow. And I thought I had the folk within:I had the sound of a violin;I had a glimpse through curtain lacesOf youthful forms and youthful faces. I had such company outward bound.I went till there were no cottages found.I turned and repented, but coming backI saw no window but that was black. Over the snow my creaking feetDisturbed the slumbering village streetLike profanation, by your leave,At ten o'clock of a winter eve. Good-Bye, And Keep Cold This saying good-bye on the edge of the darkAnd cold to an orchard so young in the barkReminds me of all that can happen to harmAn orchard away at the end of the farmAll winter, cut off by a hill from the house.I don't want it girdled by rabbit and mouse,I don't want it dreamily nibbled for browseBy deer, and I don't want it budded by grouse.(If certain it wouldn't be idle to callI'd summon grouse, rabbit, and deer to the wallAnd warn them away with a stick for a gun.)I don't want it stirred by the heat of the sun.(We made it secure against being, I hope,By setting it out on a northerly slope.)No orchard's the worse for the wintriest storm;But one thing about it, it mustn't get warm."How often already you've had to be told,Keep cold, young orchard. Good-bye and keep cold.Dread fifty above more than fifty below."I have to be gone for a season or so.My business awhile is with different trees,Less carefully nourished, less fruitful than these,And such as is done to their wood with an axe--Maples and birches and tamaracks.I wish I could promise to lie in the nightAnd think of an orchard's arboreal plightWhen slowly (and nobody comes with a light)Its heart sinks lower under the sod.But something has to be left to God. Hannibal Was there even a cause too lost,Ever a cause that was lost too long,Or that showed with the lapse of time to vainFor the generous tears of youth and song? Hyla Brook By June our brook's run out of song and speed.Sought for much after that, it will be foundEither to have gone groping underground(And taken with it all the Hyla breedThat shouted in the mist a month ago,Like ghost of sleigh-bells in a ghost of snow)--Or flourished and come up in jewel-weed,Weak foliage that is blown upon and bentEven against the way its waters went.Its bed is left a faded paper sheetOf dead leaves stuck together by the heat--A brook to none but who remember long.This as it will be seen is other farThan with brooks taken otherwhere in song.We love the things we love for what they are. I Will Sing You One-O It was long I layAwake that nightWishing that nightWould name the hourAnd tell me whetherTo call it day(Though not yet light)And give up sleep.The snow fell deepWith the hiss of spray;Two winds would meet,One down one street,One down another,And fight in a smotherOf dust and feather.I could not say,But feared the coldHad checked the paceOf the tower clockBy tying togetherIts hands of goldBefore its face. Then cane one knock!A note unruffledOf earthly weather,Though strange and muffled.The tower said, 'One!'And then a steeple.They spoke to themselvesAnd such few peopleAs winds might rouseFrom sleeping warm(But not unhouse).They left the stormThat struck en masseMy window glassLike a beaded fur.In that grave OneThey spoke of the sunAnd moon and stars,Saturn and MarsAnd Jupiter.Still more unfettered,They left the namedAnd spoke of the lettered,The sigmas and tausOf constellations.They filled their throatsWith the furthest bodiesTo which man sends hisSpeculation,Beyond which God is;The cosmic motesOf yawning lenses.Their solemn pealsWere not their own:They spoke for the clockWith whose vast wheelsTheirs interlock.In that grave wordUttered aloneThe utmost starTrembled and stirred,Though set so farIts whirling frenziesAppear like standingin one self station.It has not ranged,And save for the wonderOf once expandingTo be a nova,It has not changedTo the eye of manOn planets overAround and underIt in creationSince man beganTo drag down manAnd nation nation. Immigrants No ship of all that under sail or steamHave gathered people to us more and moreBut Pilgrim-manned the Mayflower in a dreamHas been her anxious convoy in to shore. In A Disused Graveyard The living come with grassy treadTo read the gravestones on the hill;The graveyard draws the living still,But never anymore the dead.The verses in it say and say:"The ones who living come todayTo read the stones and go awayTomorrow dead will come to stay."So sure of death the marbles rhyme,Yet can't help marking all the timeHow no one dead will seem to come.What is it men are shrinking from?It would be easy to be cleverAnd tell the stones: Men hate to dieAnd have stopped dying now forever.I think they would believe the lie. In A Poem The sentencing goes blithely on its wayAnd takes the playfully objected rhymeAs surely as it takes the stroke and timeIn having its undeviable say. In A Vale When I was young, we dwelt in a valeBy a misty fen that rang all night,And thus it was the maidens paleI knew so well, whose garments trailAcross the reeds to a window light.The fen had every kind of bloom,And for every kind there was a face,And a voice that has sounded in my roomAcross the sill from the outer gloom.Each came singly unto her place,But all came every night with the mist;And often they brought so much to sayOf things of moment to which, they wist,One so lonely was fain to list,That the stars were almost faded awayBefore the last went, heavy with dew,Back to the place from which she came-Where the bird was before it flew,Where the flower was before it grew,Where bird and flower were one and the same.And thus it is I know so wellWhy the flower has odor, the bird has song.You have only to ask me, and I can tell.No, not vainly there did I dwell,Nor vainly listen all the night long. In Equal Sacrifice Thus of old the Douglas did:He left his land as he was bidWith the royal heart of Robert the BruceIn a golden case with a golden lid,To carry the same to the Holy Land;By which we see and understandThat that was the place to carry a heartAt loyalty and love's command,And that was the case to carry it in.The Douglas had not far to winBefore he came to the land of Spain,Where long a holy war had beenAgainst the too-victorious Moor;And there his courage could not endureNot to strike a blow for GodBefore he made his errand sure.And ever it was intended so,That a man for God should strike a blow,No matter the heart he has in chargeFor the Holy Land where hearts should go.But when in battle the foe were met,The Douglas found him sore beset,With only strength of the fighting armFor one more battle passage yet-And that as vain to save the dayAs bring his body safe away-Only a signal deed to doAnd a last sounding word to say.The heart he wore in a golden chainHe swung and flung forth into the plain,And followed it crying 'Heart or death!'And fighting over it perished fain.So may another do of right,Give a heart to the hopeless fight,The more of right the more he loves;So may another redouble mightFor a few swift gleams of the angry brand,Scorning greatly not to demandIn equal sacrifice with hisThe heart he bore to the Holy Land. In Hardwood Groves The same leaves over and over again!They fall from giving shade aboveTo make one texture of faded brownAnd fit the earth like a leather glove. Before the leaves can mount againTo fill the trees with another shade,They must go down past things coming up.They must go down into the dark decayed. They must be pierced by flowers and putBeneath the feet of dancing flowers.However it is in some other worldI know that this is way in ours. In Neglect They leave us so to the way we took, As two in whom them were provedmistaken, That we sit sometimes in the wayside nook, With michievous, vagrant,seraphic look, And try if we cannot feel forsaken.  In White A dented spider like a snow drop whiteOn a white Heal-all, holding up a mothLike a white piece of lifeless satin cloth -Saw ever curious eye so strange a sight? -Portent in little, assorted death and blightLike the ingredients of a witches' broth? -The beady spider, the flower like a froth,And the moth carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white,The blue prunella every child's delight.What brought the kindred spider to that height?(Make we no thesis of the miller's plight.)What but design of darkness and of night?Design, design! Do I use the word aright? Into My Own One of my wishes is that those dark trees,So old and firm they scarcely show the breeze,Were not, as 'twere, the merest mask of gloom,But stretched away unto the edge of doom. I should not be withheld but that some dayinto their vastness I should steal away,Fearless of ever finding open land,or highway where the slow wheel pours the sand. I do not see why I should e'er turn back,Or those should not set forth upon my trackTo overtake me, who should miss me hereAnd long to know if still I held them dear. They would not find me changed from him they knew--Only more sure of all I though was true. Iota Subscript Seek not in me the big I capital,Not yet the little dotted in me seek.If I have in me any I at all,'Tis the iota subscript of the Greek.So small am I as an attention beggar.The letter you will find me subscript toIs neither alpha, eta, nor omega,But upsilon which is the Greek for you. Iris By Night One misty evening, one another's guide,We two were groping down a Malvern sideThe last wet fields and dripping hedges home.There came a moment of confusing lights,Such as according to belief in RomeWere seen of old at Memphis on the heightsBefore the fragments of a former sunCould concentrate anew and rise as one.Light was a paste of pigment in our eyes.And then there was a moon and then a sceneSo watery as to seem submarine;In which we two stood saturated, drowned.The clover-mingled rowan on the groundHad taken all the water it could as dew,And still the air was saturated too,Its airy pressure turned to water weight.Then a small rainbow like a trellis gate,A very small moon-made prismatic bow,Stood closely over us through which to go.And then we were vouchsafed a miracleThat never yet to other two befellAnd I alone of us have lived to tell.A wonder! Bow and rainbow as it bent,Instead of moving with us as we went(To keep the pots of gold from being found),It lifted from its dewy pedimentIts two mote-swimming many-colored endsAnd gathered them together in a ring.And we stood in it softly circled roundFrom all division time or foe can bringIn a relation of elected friends. Leaves Compared With Flowers A tree's leaves may be ever so good,So may its bar, so may its wood;But unless you put the right thing to its rootIt never will show much flower or fruit. But I may be one who does not careEver to have tree bloom or bear.Leaves for smooth and bark for rough,Leaves and bark may be tree enough. Some giant trees have bloom so smallThey might as well have none at all.Late in life I have come on fern.Now lichens are due to have their turn. I bade men tell me which in brief,Which is fairer, flower or leaf.They did not have the wit to say,Leaves by night and flowers by day. Leaves and bar, leaves and bark,To lean against and hear in the dark.Petals I may have once pursued.Leaves are all my darker mood. Locked Out As told to a child  When we locked up the house at night,We always locked the flowers outsideAnd cut them off from window light.The time I dreamed the door was triedAnd brushed with buttons upon sleeves,The flowers were out there with the thieves.Yet nobody molested them!We did find one nasturtiumUpon the steps with bitten stem.I may have been to blame for that:I always thought it must have beenSome Hower I played with as I satAt dusk to watch the moon down early. Lodged The rain to the wind said,'You push and I'll pelt.'They so smote the garden bedThat the flowers actually knelt,And lay lodged -  though not dead.I know how the flowers felt. Looking for a Sunset Bird in Winter The west was getting out of gold,The breath of air had died of cold,When shoeing home across the white,I thought I saw a bird alight. In summer when I passed the placeI had to stop and lift my face;A bird with an angelic giftWas singing in it sweet and swift. No bird was singing in it now.A single leaf was on a bough,And that was all there was to seeIn going twice around the tree. From my advantage on a hillI judged that such a crystal chillWas only adding frost to snowAs gilt to gold that wouldn't show. A brush had left a crooked strokeOf what was either cloud or smokeFrom north to south across the blue;A piercing little star was through. Love And A Question A stranger came to the door at eve,And he spoke the bridegroom fair.He bore a green-white stick in his hand,And, for all burden, care.He asked with the eyes more than the lipsFor a shelter for the night,And he turned and looked at the road afarWithout a window light. The bridegroom came forth into the porchWith, 'Let us look at the sky,And question what of the night to be,Stranger, you and I.'The woodbine leaves littered the yard,The woodbine berries were blue,Autumn, yes, winter was in the wind;'Stranger, I wish I knew.' Within, the bride in the dusk aloneBent over the open fire,Her face rose-red with the glowing coalAnd the thought of the heart's desire. The bridegroom looked at the weary road,Yet saw but her within,And wished her heart in a case of goldAnd pinned with a silver pin. The bridegroom thought it little to giveA dole of bread, a purse,A heartfelt prayer for the poor of God,Or for the rich a curse; But whether or not a man was askedTo mar the love of twoBy harboring woe in the bridal house,The bridegroom wished he knew. Meeting And Passing As I went down the hill along the wallThere was a gate I had leaned at for the viewAnd had just turned from when I first saw youAs you came up the hill. We met. But allWe did that day was mingle great and smallFootprints in summer dust as if we drewThe figure of our being less than twoBut more than one as yet. Your parasolPointed the decimal off with one deep thrust.And all the time we talked you seemed to seeSomething down there to smile at in the dust.(Oh, it was without prejudice to me!)Afterward I went past what you had passedBefore we met and you what I had passed. Mending Wall Something there is that doesn't love a wall,That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it,And spills the upper boulders in the sun;And makes gaps even two can pass abreast.The work of hunters is another thing:I have come after them and made repairWhere they have left not one stone on a stone,But they would have the rabbit out of hiding,To please the yelping dogs. The gaps I mean,No one has seen them made or heard them made,But at spring mending-time we find them there.I let my neighbour know beyond the hill;And on a day we meet to walk the lineAnd set the wall between us once again.We keep the wall between us as we go.To each the boulders that have fallen to each.And some are loaves and some so nearly ballsWe have to use a spell to make them balance:"Stay where you are until our backs are turned!"We wear our fingers rough with handling them.Oh, just another kind of out-door game,One on a side. It comes to little more:There where it is we do not need the wall:He is all pine and I am apple orchard.My apple trees will never get acrossAnd eat the cones under his pines, I tell him.He only says, "Good fences make good neighbours."Spring is the mischief in me, and I wonderIf I could put a notion in his head:"Why do they make good neighbours? Isn't itWhere there are cows? But here there are no cows.Before I built a wall I'd ask to knowWhat I was walling in or walling out,And to whom I was like to give offence.Something there is that doesn't love a wall,That wants it down." I could say "Elves" to him,But it's not elves exactly, and I'd ratherHe said it for himself. I see him thereBringing a stone grasped firmly by the topIn each hand, like an old-stone savage armed.He moves in darkness as it seems to me,Not of woods only and the shade of trees.He will not go behind his father's saying,And he likes having thought of it so wellHe says again, "Good fences make good neighbours." Misgiving All crying, 'We will go with you, O Wind!'The foliage follow him, leaf and stem;But a sleep oppresses them as they go,And they end by bidding them as they go,And they end by bidding him stay with them. Since ever they flung abroad in springThe leaves had promised themselves this flight,Who now would fain seek sheltering wall,Or thicket, or hollow place for the night. And now they answer his summoning blastWith an ever vaguer and vaguer stir,Or at utmost a little reluctant whirlThat drops them no further than where they were. I only hope that when I am freeAs they are free to go in questOf the knowledge beyond the bounds of lifeIt may not seem better to me to rest. Mowing There was never a sound beside the wood but one,And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.What was it it whispered? I knew not well myself;Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun,Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--And that was why it whispered and did not speak.It was no dream of the gift of idle hours,Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf:Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weakTo the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers(Pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake.The fact is the sweetest dream that labour knows.My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make. My Butterfly Thine emulous fond flowers are dead, too,And the daft sun-assaulter, heThat frighted thee so oft, is fled or dead:Save only me(Nor is it sad to thee!) Save only meThere is none left to mourn thee in the fields.The gray grass is not dappled with the snow;Its two banks have not shut upon the river;But it is long ago-It seems forever-Since first I saw thee glance,With all the dazzling other ones,In airy dalliance,Precipitate in love,Tossed, tangled, whirled and whirled above,Like a limp rose-wreath in a fairy dance.When that was, the soft mistOf my regret hung not on all the land,And I was glad for thee,And glad for me, I wist.Thou didst not know, who tottered, wandering on high,That fate had made thee for the pleasure of the wind,With those great careless wings,Nor yet did I.And there were other things:It seemed God let thee flutter from his gentle clasp:Then fearful he had let thee winToo far beyond him to be gathered in,Snatched thee, o'er eager, with ungentle grasp.Ah! I remember meHow once conspiracy was rifeAgainst my life-The languor of it and the dreaming fond;Surging, the grasses dizzied me of thought,The breeze three odors brought,And a gem-flower waved in a wand!Then when I was distraughtAnd could not speak,Sidelong, full on my cheek,What should that reckless zephyr flingBut the wild touch of thy dye-dusty wing!I found that wing broken to-day!For thou are dead, I said,And the strange birds say.I found it with the withered leavesUnder the eaves. My November Guest My Sorrow, when she's here with me,Thinks these dark days of autumn rainAre beautiful as days can be;She loves the bare, the withered tree;She walks the sodden pasture lane. Her pleasure will not let me stay.She talks and I am fain to list:She's glad the birds are gone away,She's glad her simple worsted greyIs silver now with clinging mist. The desolate, deserted trees,The faded earth, the heavy sky,The beauties she so truly sees,She thinks I have no eye for these,And vexes me for reason why. Not yesterday I learned to knowThe love of bare November daysBefore the coming of the snow,But it were vain to tell her so,And they are better for her praise Neither Out Far Nor In Deep The people along the sandAll turn and look one way.They turn their back on the land.They look at the sea all day. As long as it takes to passA ship keeps raising its hull;The wetter ground like glassReflects a standing gull The land may vary more;But wherever the truth may be-The water comes ashore,And the people look at the sea. They cannot look out far.They cannot look in deep.But when was that ever a barTo any watch they keep? Never Again Would Bird's Song Be The Same He would declare and could himself believeThat the birds there in all the garden roundFrom having heard the daylong voice of EveHad added to their own an oversound,Her tone of meaning but without the words.Admittedly an eloquence so softCould only have had an influence on birdsWhen call or laughter carried it aloft.Be that as may be, she was in their song.Moreover her voice upon their voices crossedHad now persisted in the woods so longThat probably it never would be lost.Never again would birds' song be the same.And to do that to birds was why she came. Not To Keep They sent him back to her. The letter cameSaying... And she could have him. And beforeShe could be sure there was no hidden illUnder the formal writing, he was in her sight,Living. They gave him back to her aliveHow else? They are not known to send the deadAnd not disfigured visibly. His face?His hands? She had to look, and ask,"What was it, dear?" And she had given allAnd still she had all they had they the lucky!Wasn’t she glad now? Everything seemed won,And all the rest for them permissible ease.She had to ask, "What was it, dear?" "Enough,"Yet not enough. A bullet through and through,High in the breast. Nothing but what good careAnd medicine and rest, and you a week,Can cure me of to go again." The sameGrim giving to do over for them both.She dared no more than ask him with her eyesHow was it with him for a second trial.And with his eyes he asked her not to ask.They had given him back to her, but not to keep. Nothing Gold Can Stay Nature's first green is gold,Her hardest hue to hold.Her early leaf's a flower;But only so an hour.Then leaf subsides to leaf,So Eden sank to grief,So dawn goes down to dayNothing gold can stay. Now Close The Windows Now close the windows and hush all the fields:If the trees must, let them silently toss;No bird is singing now, and if there is,Be it my loss. It will be long ere the marshes resume,I will be long ere the earliest bird:So close the windows and not hear the wind,But see all wind-stirred. October O hushed October morning mild,Thy leaves have ripened to the fall;Tomorrow's wind, if it be wild,Should waste them all.The crows above the forest call;Tomorrow they may form and go.O hushed October morning mild,Begin the hours of this day slow.Make the day seem to us less brief.Hearts not averse to being beguiled,Beguile us in the way you know.Release one leaf at break of day;At noon release another leaf;One from our trees, one far away.Retard the sun with gentle mist;Enchant the land with amethyst.Slow, slow!For the grapes' sake, if the were all,Whose elaves already are burnt with frost,Whose clustered fruit must else be lost—For the grapes' sake along the all. On a Tree Fallen Across the Road (To hear us talk) The tree the tempest with a crash of woodThrows down in front of us is not barOur passage to our journey's end for good,But just to ask us who we think we are Insisting always on our own way so.She likes to halt us in our runner tracks,And make us get down in a foot of snowDebating what to do without an ax. And yet she knows obstruction is in vain:We will not be put off the final goalWe have it hidden in us to attain,Not though we have to seize earth by the pole And, tired of aimless circling in one place,Steer straight off after something into space. On Looking Up By Chance At The Constellations You'll wait a long, long time for anything muchTo happen in heaven beyond the floats of cloudAnd the Northern Lights that run like tingling nerves.The sun and moon get crossed, but they never touch,Nor strike out fire from each other nor crash out loud.The planets seem to interfere in their curves -But nothing ever happens, no harm is done.We may as well go patiently on with our life,And look elsewhere than to stars and moon and sunFor the shocks and changes we need to keep us sane.It is true the longest drout will end in rain,The longest peace in China will end in strife.Still it wouldn't reward the watcher to stay awakeIn hopes of seeing the calm of heaven breakOn his particular time and personal sight.That calm seems certainly safe to last to-night. Once By The Pacific The shattered water made a misty din.Great waves looked over others coming in,And thought of doing something to the shoreThat water never did to land before.The clouds were low and hairy in the skies,Like locks blown forward in the gleam of eyes.You could not tell, and yet it looked as ifThe shore was lucky in being backed by cliff,The cliff in being backed by continent;It looked as if a night of dark intentWas coming, and not only a night, an age.Someone had better be prepared for rage.There would be more than ocean-water brokenBefore God's last Put out the light was spoken. Out, Out The buzz-saw snarled and rattled in the yardAnd made dust and dropped stove-length sticks of wood,Sweet-scented stuff when the breeze drew across it.And from there those that lifted eyes could countFive mountain ranges one behind the otherUnder the sunset far into Vermont.And the saw snarled and rattled, snarled and rattled,As it ran light, or had to bear a load.And nothing happened: day was all but done.Call it a day, I wish they might have saidTo please the boy by giving him the half hourThat a boy counts so much when saved from work.His sister stood beside them in her apronTo tell them "Supper." At that word, the saw,As if to prove saws knew what supper meant,Leaped out at the boy's hand, or seemed to leap -He must have given the hand. However it was,Neither refused the meeting. But the hand!The boy's first outcry was a rueful laugh,As he swung toward them holding up the handHalf in appeal, but half as if to keepThe life from spilling. Then the boy saw all -Since he was old enough to know, big boyDoing a man's work, though a child at heart -He saw all spoiled. "Don't let him cut my hand off -The doctor, when he comes. Don't let him, sister!"So. But the hand was gone already.The doctor put him in the dark of ether.He lay and puffed his lips out with his breath.And then - the watcher at his pulse took fright.No one believed. They listened at his heart.Little - less - nothing! - and that ended it.No more to build on there. And they, since theyWere not the one dead, turned to their affairs. Pan With Us PAN came out of the woods one day,—	His skin and his hair and his eyes were gray,	The gray of the moss of walls were they,—	 And stood in the sun and looked his fill	 At wooded valley and wooded hill.	        He stood in the zephyr, pipes in hand,	On a height of naked pasture land; 	In all the country he did command	 He saw no smoke and he saw no roof.	 That was well! and he stamped a hoof.	        His heart knew peace, for none came here	To this lean feeding save once a year	Someone to salt the half-wild steer,	 Or homespun children with clicking pails	 Who see no little they tell no tales.	        He tossed his pipes, too hard to teach	A new-world song, far out of reach,	For a sylvan sign that the blue jay’s screech	 And the whimper of hawks beside the sun	 Were music enough for him, for one.	       Times were changed from what they were:	Such pipes kept less of power to stir	The fruited bough of the juniper	 And the fragile bluets clustered there	 Than the merest aimless breath of air.	        They were pipes of pagan mirth,	And the world had found new terms of worth.	He laid him down on the sun-burned earth	 And ravelled a flower and looked away—	 Play? Play? —What should he play?  Pea Brush I WALKED down alone Sunday after churchTo the place where John has been cutting treesTo see for myself about the birchHe said I could have to bush my peas. The sun in the new-cut narrow gapWas hot enough for the first of May,And stifling hot with the odor of sapFrom stumps still bleeding their life away. The frogs that were peeping a thousand shrillWherever the ground was low and wet,The minute they heard my step went stillTo watch me and see what I came to get. Birch boughs enough piled everywhere!—All fresh and sound from the recent axe.Time someone came with cart and pairAnd got them off the wild flower's backs. They might be good for garden thingsTo curl a little finger round,The same as you seize cat's-cradle strings,And lift themselves up off the ground. Small good to anything growing wild,They were crooking many a trilliumThat had budded before the boughs were piledAnd since it was coming up had to come. Plowmen A plow, they say, to plow the snow.They cannot mean to plant it, no --Unless in bitterness to mockAt having cultivated rock. Provide, Provide The witch that came (the withered hag)To wash the steps with pail and ragWas once the beauty Abishag, The picture pride of Hollywood.Too many fall from great and goodFor you to doubt the likelihood. Die early and avoid the fate.Or if predestined to die late,Make up your mind to die in state. Make the whole stock exchange your own!If need be occupy a throne,Where nobody can call you crone. Some have relied on what they knew,Others on being simply true.What worked for them might work for you. No memory of having starredAtones for later disregardOr keeps the end from being hard. Better to go down dignifiedWith boughten friendship at your sideThan none at all. Provide, provide! Putting In The Seed You come to fetch me from my work to-nightWhen supper's on the table, and we'll seeIf I can leave off burying the whiteSoft petals fallen from the apple tree(Soft petals, yes, but not so barren quite,Mingled with these, smooth bean and wrinkled pea);And go along with you ere you lose sightOf what you came for and become like me,Slave to a Springtime passion for the earth.How Love burns through the Putting in the SeedOn through the watching for that early birthWhen, just as the soil tarnishes with weed,The sturdy seedling with arched body comesShouldering its way and shedding the earth crumbs. Quandary Never have I been glad or sadThat there was such a thing as bad.There had to be, I understood,For there to have been any good.It was by having been contrastedThat good and bad so long had lasted.That's why discrimination reigns.That's why we need a lot of brainsIf only to discriminate'Twixt what to love and what to hate.To quote the oracle at Delphi,Love thy neighbor as thyself, aye,And hate him as thyself thou hatest.There quandary is at its greatest.We learned from the forbidden fruitFor brains there is no substitute.'Unless it's sweetbreads, ' you suggestWith innuendo I detest.You drive me to confess in ink:Once I was fool enough to thinkThat brains and sweetbreads were the same,Till I was caught and put to shame,First by a butcher, then a cook,Then by a scientific book.But ' twas by making sweetbreads doI passed with such a high I.Q. Range-Finding The battle rent a cobweb diamond-strungAnd cut a flower beside a ground bird's nestBefore it stained a single human breast.The stricken flower bent double and so hung.And still the bird revisited her young.A butterfly its fall had dispossessedA moment sought in air his flower of rest,Then lightly stooped to it and fluttering clung. On the bare upland pasture there had spreadO'ernight 'twixt mullein stalks a wheel of threadAnd straining cables wet with silver dew.A sudden passing bullet shook it dry.The indwelling spider ran to greet the fly,But finding nothing, sullenly withdrew. Reluctance Out through the fields and the woods  And over the walls I have wended;I have climbed the hills of view  And looked at the world, and descended;I have come by the highway home,  And lo, it is ended. The leaves are all dead on the ground,  Save those that the oak is keepingTo ravel them one by one  And let them go scraping and creepingOut over the crusted snow,  When others are sleeping. And the dead leaves lie huddled and still,  No longer blown hither and thither;The last lone aster is gone;  The flowers of the witch hazel wither;The heart is still aching to seek,  But the feet question ‘Whither? ’ Ah, when to the heart of man  Was it ever less than a treasonTo go with the drift of things,  To yield with a grace to reason,And bow and accept the end  Of a love or a season? Revelation We make ourselves a place apartBehind light words that tease and flout,But oh, the agitated heartTill someone find us really out. 'Tis pity if the case require(Or so we say) that in the endWe speak the literal to inspireThe understanding of a friend. But so with all, from babes that playAt hide-and-seek to God afar,So all who hide too well awayMust speak and tell us where they are. Riders The surest thing there is is we are riders,And though none too successful at it, guiders,Through everything presented, land and tideAnd now the very air, of what we ride. What is this talked-of mystery of birthBut being mounted bareback on the earth?We can just see the infant up astride,His small fist buried in the bushy hide. There is our wildest mount- a headless horse.But though it runs unbridled off its course,And all our blandishments would seem defied,We have ideas yet that we haven't tried. Rose Pogonias A saturated meadow, Sun-shaped and jewel-small,A circle scarcely wider Than the trees around were tall;Where winds were quite excluded, And the air was stifling sweetWith the breath of many flowers, -- A temple of the heat. There we bowed us in the burning, As the sun's right worship is,To pick where none could miss them A thousand orchises;For though the grass was scattered, yet every second spearSeemed tipped with wings of color, That tinged the atmosphere. We raised a simple prayer Before we left the spot,That in the general mowing That place might be forgot;Or if not all so favored, Obtain such grace of hours,that none should mow the grass there While so confused with flowers. Sand Dunes Sea waves are green and wet,But up from where they die,Rise others vaster yet,And those are brown and dry. They are the sea made landTo come at the fisher town,And bury in solid sandThe men she could not drown. She may know cove and cape,But she does not know mankindIf by any change of shape,She hopes to cut off mind. Men left her a ship to sink:They can leave her a hut as well;And be but more free to thinkFor the one more cast-off shell. Sitting by a Bush in Broad Sunlight When I spread out my hand here today,I catch no more than a rayTo feel of between thumb and fingers;No lasting effect of it lingers. There was one time and only the oneWhen dust really took in the sun;And from that one intake of fireAll creatures still warmly suspire. And if men have watched a long timeAnd never seen sun-smitten slimeAgain come to life and crawl off,We not be too ready to scoff. God once declared he was trueAnd then took the veil and withdrew,And remember how final a hushThen descended of old on the bush. God once spoke to people by name.The sun once imparted its flame.One impulse persists as our breath;The other persists as our faith. Spoils Of The Dead Two fairies it wasOn a still summer dayCame forth in the woodsWith the flowers to play.The flowers they pluckedThey cast on the groundFor others, and thoseFor still others they found.Flower-guided it wasThat they came as they ranOn something that layIn the shape of a man.The snow must have madeThe feathery bedWhen this one fellOn the sleep of the dead.But the snow was goneA long time ago,And the body he woreNigh gone with the snow.The fairies drew nearAnd keenly espiedA ring on his handAnd a chain at his side.They knelt in the leavesAnd eerily playedWith the glittering things,And were not afraid.And when they went homeTo hide in their burrow,They took them alongTo play with to-morrow.When you came on death,Did you not come flower-guidedLike the elves in the wood?I remember that I did.But I recognised deathWith sorrow and dread,And I hated and hateThe spoils of the dead. Spring Pools These pools that, though in forests, still reflectThe total sky almost without defect,And like the flowers beside them, chill and shiver,Will like the flowers beside them soon be gone,And yet not out by any brook or river,But up by roots to bring dark foliage on. The trees that have it in their pent-up budsTo darken nature and be summer woods -Let them think twice before they use their powersTo blot out and drink up and sweep awayThese flowery waters and these watery flowersFrom snow that melted only yesterday. Stars How countlessly they congregateO'er our tumultuous snow,Which flows in shapes as tall as treesWhen wintry winds do blow!-- As if with keenness for our fate,Our faltering few steps onTo white rest, and a place of restInvisible at dawn,-- And yet with neither love nor hate,Those stars like some snow-whiteMinerva's snow-white marble eyesWithout the gift of sight. Stopping By Woods On A Snowy Evening Whose woods these are I think I know.His house is in the village, though;He will not see me stopping hereTo watch his woods fill up with snow. My little horse must think it queerTo stop without a farmhouse nearBetween the woods and frozen lakeThe darkest evening of the year. He gives his harness bells a shakeTo ask if there is some mistake.The only other sound's the sweepOf easy wind and downy flake. The woods are lovely, dark and deep,But I have promises to keep,And miles to go before I sleep,And miles to go before I sleep. Storm Fear When the wind works against us in the dark,And pelts with snowThe lowest chamber window on the east,And whispers with a sort of stifled bark,The beast,'Come out! Come out!'-It costs no inward struggle not to go,Ah, no!I count our strength,Two and a child,Those of us not asleep subdued to markHow the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,-How drifts are piled,Dooryard and road ungraded,Till even the comforting barn grows far awayAnd my heart owns a doubtWhether 'tis in us to arise with dayAnd save ourselves unaided. The Aim Was Song Before man to blow to rightThe wind once blew itself untaught,And did its loudest day and nightIn any rough place where it caught. Man came to tell it what was wrong:It hadn't found the place to blow;It blew too hard - the aim was song.And listen - how it ought to go! He took a little in his mouth,And held it long enough for northTo be converted into south,And then by measure blew it forth. By measure. It was word and note,The wind the wind had meant to be -A little through the lips and throat.The aim was song - the wind could see. The Armful For every parcel I stoop down to seizeI lose some other off my arms and knees,And the whole pile is slipping, bottles, buns --Extremes too hard to comprehend at once,Yet nothing I should care to leave behind.With all I have to hold with hand and mindAnd heart, if need be, I will do my bestTo keep their building balanced at my breast.I crouch down to prevent them as they fall;Then sit down in the middle of them all.I had to drop the armful in the roadAnd try to stack them in a better load.  The Bear The bear puts both arms around the tree above herAnd draws it down as if it were a loverAnd its chokecherries lips to kiss good-by,Then lets it snap back upright in the sky.Her next step rocks a boulder on the wall(She's making her cross-country in the fall).Her great weight creaks the barbed wire in its staplesAs she flings over and off down through the maples,Leaving on one wire tooth a lock of hair.Such is the uncaged progress of the bear.The world has room to make a bear feel free;The universe seems cramped to you and me.Man acts more like the poor bear in a cage,That all day fights a nervous inward rage,His mood rejecting all his mind suggests.He paces back and forth and never restsThe me-nail click and shuffle of his feet,The telescope at one end of his beat,And at the other end the microscope,Two instruments of nearly equal hope,And in conjunction giving quite a spread.Or if he rests from scientific tread,'Tis only to sit back and sway his headThrough ninety-odd degrees of arc, it seems,Between two metaphysical extremes.He sits back on his fundamental buttWith lifted snout and eyes (if any) shut(He almost looks religious but he's not),And back and forth he sways from cheek to cheek,At one extreme agreeing with one GreekAt the other agreeing with another GreekWhich may be thought, but only so to speak.A baggy figure, equally patheticWhen sedentary and when peripatetic. The Birthplace Here further up the mountain slopeThan there was every any hope,My father built, enclosed a spring,Strung chains of wall round everything,Subdued the growth of earth to grass,And brought our various lives to pass.A dozen girls and boys we were.The mountain seemed to like the stir,And made of us a little while-With always something in her smile.Today she wouldn't know our name.(No girl's, of course, has stayed the same.)The mountain pushed us off her knees.And now her lap is full of trees. The Cow In Apple-Time Something inspires the only cow of lateTo make no more of a wall than an open gate,And think no more of wall-builders than fools.Her face is flecked with pomace and she droolsA cider syrup. Having tasted fruit,She scorns a pasture withering to the root.She runs from tree to tree where lie and sweeten.The windfalls spiked with stubble and worm-eaten.She leaves them bitten when she has to fly.She bellows on a knoll against the sky.Her udder shrivels and the milk goes dry. The Demiurge's Laugh It was far in the sameness of the wood;I was running with joy on the Demon’s trail,Though I knew what I hunted was no true god.It was just as the light was beginning to failThat I suddenly heard—all I needed to hear:It has lasted me many and many a year. The sound was behind me instead of before,A sleepy sound, but mocking half,As of one who utterly couldn’t care.The Demon arose from his wallow to laugh,Brushing the dirt from his eye as he went;And well I knew what the Demon meant. I shall not forget how his laugh rang out.I felt as a fool to have been so caught,And checked my steps to make pretenceIt was something among the leaves I sought(Though doubtful whether he stayed to see).Thereafter I sat me against a tree. The Door In The Dark In going from room to room in the dark,I reached out blindly to save my face,But neglected, however lightly, to laceMy fingers and close my arms in an arc.A slim door got in past my guard,And hit me a blow in the head so hardI had my native simile jarred.So people and things don't pair any moreWith what they used to pair with before. The Egg and the Machine He gave the solid rail a hateful kick.From far away there came an answering tickAnd then another tick. He knew the code:His hate had roused an engine up the road.He wished when he had had the track aloneHe had attacked it with a club or stoneAnd bent some rail wide open like switchSo as to wreck the engine in the ditch.Too late though, now, he had himself to thank.Its click was rising to a nearer clank.Here it came breasting like a horse in skirts.(He stood well back for fear of scalding squirts.)Then for a moment all there was was sizeConfusion and a roar that drowned the criesHe raised against the gods in the machine.Then once again the sandbank lay serene.The traveler's eye picked up a turtle train,between the dotted feet a streak of tail,And followed it to where he made out vagueBut certain signs of buried turtle's egg;And probing with one finger not too rough,He found suspicious sand, and sure enough,The pocket of a little turtle mine.If there was one egg in it there were nine,Torpedo-like, with shell of gritty leatherAll packed in sand to wait the trump together.'You'd better not disturb any more,'He told the distance, 'I am armed for war.The next machine that has the power to passWill get this plasm in it goggle glass.' The Exposed Nest You were forever finding some new play.So when I saw you down on hands and kneesI the meadow, busy with the new-cut hay,Trying, I thought, to set it up on end,I went to show you how to make it stay,If that was your idea, against the breeze,And, if you asked me, even help pretendTo make it root again and grow afresh.But 'twas no make-believe with you today,Nor was the grass itself your real concern,Though I found your hand full of wilted fern,Steel-bright June-grass, and blackening heads of clovers.'Twas a nest full of young birds on the groundThe cutter-bar had just gone champing over(Miraculously without tasking flesh)And left defenseless to the heat and light.You wanted to restore them to their rightOf something interposed between their sightAnd too much world at once--could means be found.The way the nest-full every time we stirredStood up to us as to a mother-birdWhose coming home has been too long deferred,Made me ask would the mother-bird returnAnd care for them in such a change of sceneAnd might out meddling make her more afraid.That was a thing we could not wait to learn.We saw the risk we took in doing good,But dared not spare to do the best we couldThough harm should come of it; so built the screenYou had begun, and gave them back their shade.All this to prove we cared. Why is there thenNo more to tell? We turned to other things.I haven't any memory--have you?--Of ever coming to the place againTo see if the birds lived the first night through,And so at last to learn to use their wings. The Flood Blood has been harder to dam back than water.Just when we think we have it impounded safeBehind new barrier walls (and let it chafe!),It breaks away in some new kind of slaughter.We choose to say it is let loose by the devil;But power of blood itself releases blood.It goes by might of being such a floodHeld high at so unnatural a level.It will have outlet, brave and not so brave.weapons of war and implements of peaceAre but the points at which it finds release.And now it is once more the tidal waveThat when it has swept by leaves summits stained.Oh, blood will out. It cannot be contained. The Flower Boat The fisherman's swapping a yarn for a yarnUnder the hand of the village barber,And her in the angle of house and barnHis deep-sea dory has found a harbor. At anchor she rides the sunny sodAs full to the gunnel of flowers growingAs ever she turned her home with codFrom George's bank when winds were blowing. And I judge from that elysian freightThat all they ask is rougher weather,And dory and master will sail by fateTo seek the Happy Isles together. The Freedom Of The Moon I've tried the new moon tilted in the airAbove a hazy tree-and-farmhouse clusterAs you might try a jewel in your hair.I've tried it fine with little breadth of luster,Alone, or in one ornament combiningWith one first-water start almost shining. I put it shining anywhere I please.By walking slowly on some evening later,I've pulled it from a crate of crooked trees,And brought it over glossy water, greater,And dropped it in, and seen the image wallow,The color run, all sorts of wonder follow. The Gift Outright The land was ours before we were the land's.She was our land more than a hundred yearsBefore we were her people. She was oursIn Massachusetts, in Virginia,But we were England's, still colonials,Possessing what we still were unpossessed by,Possessed by what we now no more possessed.Something we were withholding made us weakUntil we found out that it was ourselvesWe were withholding from our land of living,And forthwith found salvation in surrender.Such as we were we gave ourselves outright(The deed of gift was many deeds of war)To the land vaguely realizing westward,But still unstoried, artless, unenhanced,Such as she was, such as she would become. The Gum-Gatherer There overtook me and drew me inTo his down-hill, early-morning stride,And set me five miles on my roadBetter than if he had had me ride,A man with a swinging bag for'loadAnd half the bag wound round his hand.We talked like barking above the dinOf water we walked along beside.And for my telling him where I'd beenAnd where I lived in mountain landTo be coming home the way I was,He told me a little about himself.He came from higher up in the passWhere the grist of the new-beginning brooksIs blocks split off the mountain mass --And hop. eless grist enough it looksEver to grind to soil for grass.(The way it is will do for moss.)There he had built his stolen shack.It had to be a stolen shackBecause of the fears of fire and logsThat trouble the sleep of lumber folk:Visions of half the world burned blackAnd the sun shrunken yellow in smoke.We know who when they come to townBring berries under the wagon seat,Or a basket of eggs between their feet;What this man brought in a cotton sackWas gum, the gum of the mountain spruce.He showed me lumps of the scented stuffLike uncut jewels, dull and roughIt comes to market golden brown;But turns to pink between the teeth.I told him this is a pleasant lifeTo set your breast to the bark of treesThat all your days are dim beneath,And reaching up with a little knife,To loose the resin and take it downAnd bring it to market when you pleaseThe Hill Wife It was too lonely for her there,And too wild,And since there were but two of them,And no child. And work was little in the house,She was free,And followed where he furrowed field,Or felled log. She rested on a log and tossedThe fresh chips,With a song only to herselfOn her lips. And once she went to break a boughOf black alder.She strayed so far she scarcely heardWhen he called her - And didn't answer - didn't speak -Or return.She stood, and then she ran and hidIn the fern. He never found her, though he lookedEverywhere,And he asked at her mother's houseWas she there. Sudden and swift and light as thatThe ties gave,And he learned of finalitiesBesides the grave. The Impulse It was too lonely for her there,And too wild,And since there were but two of them,And no child, And work was little in the house,She was free,And followed where he furrowed field,Or felled tree. She rested on a log and tossedThe fresh chips,With a song only to herselfOn her lips. And once she went to break a boughOf black alder.She strayed so far she scarcely heardWhen he called her- And didn't answer-didn't speak-Or return.She stood, and then she ran and hidIn the fern. He never found her, though he lookedEverywhere,And he asked at her mother's houseWas she there. Sudden and swift and light as thatThe ties gave,And he learned of finalitiesBesides the grave. The Investment Over back where they speak of life as staying('You couldn't call it living, for it ain't'),There was an old, old house renewed with paint,And in it a piano loudly playing. Out in the plowed ground in the cold a digger,Among unearthed potatoes standing still,Was counting winter dinners, one a hill,With half an ear to the piano's vigor. All that piano and new paint back there,Was it some money suddenly come into?Or some extravagance young love had been to?Or old love on an impulse not to care- Not to sink under being man and wife,But get some color and music out of life? The Kitchen Chimney Builder, in building the little house,In every way you may please yourself;But please please me in the kitchen chimney:Don't build me a chimney upon a shelf. However far you must go for bricks,Whatever they cost a-piece or a pound,But me enough for a full-length chimney,And build the chimney clear from the ground. It's not that I'm greatly afraid of fire,But I never heard of a house that throve(And I know of one that didn't thrive)Where the chimney started above the stove. And I dread the ominous stain of tarThat there always is on the papered walls,And the smell of fire drowned in rainThat there always is when the chimney's false. A shelf's for a clock or vase or picture,But I don't see why it should have to bearA chimney that only would serve to remind meOf castles I used to build in air. The Last Mowing There's a place called Far-away MeadowWe never shall mow in again,Or such is the talk at the farmhouse:The meadow is finished with men.Then now is the chance for the flowersThat can't stand mowers and plowers.It must be now, through, in seasonBefore the not mowing brings trees on,Before trees, seeing the opening,March into a shadowy claim.The trees are all I'm afraid of,That flowers can't bloom in the shade of;It's no more men I'm afraid of;The meadow is done with the tame.The place for the moment is oursFor you, oh tumultuous flowers,To go to waste and go wild in,All shapes and colors of flowers,I needn't call you by name. The Last Word of a Blue Bird As told to a child  As I went out a CrowIn a low voice said, 'Oh,I was looking for you.How do you do?I just came to tell youTo tell Lesley (will you?)That her little BluebirdWanted me to bring wordThat the north wind last nightThat made the stars brightAnd made ice on the troughAlmost made him coughHis tail feathers off.He just had to fly!But he sent her Good-by,And said to be good,And wear her red hood,And look for the skunk tracksIn the snow with an ax-And do everything!And perhaps in the springHe would come back and sing.' The Line-Gang Here come the line-gang pioneering by,They throw a forest down less cut than broken.They plant dead trees for living, and the deadThey string together with a living thread.They string an instrument against the skyWherein words whether beaten out or spokenWill run as hushed as when they were a thoughtBut in no hush they string it: they go pastWith shouts afar to pull the cable taught,To hold it hard until they make it fast,To ease away -- they have it. With a laugh,An oath of towns that set the wild at naughtThey bring the telephone and telegraph. The Lockless Door It went many years,But at last came a knock,And I thought of the doorWith no lock to lock. I blew out the light,I tip-toed the floor,And raised both handsIn prayer to the door. But the knock came againMy window was wide;I climbed on the sillAnd descended outside. Back over the sillI bade a "Come in"To whoever the knockAt the door may have been. So at a knockI emptied my cageTo hide in the worldAnd alter with age. The Master Speed No speed of wind or water rushing byBut you have speed far greater. You can climbBack up a stream of radiance to the sky,And back through history up the stream of time.And you were given this swiftness, not for hasteNor chiefly that you may go where you will,But in the rush of everything to waste,That you may have the power of standing still-Off any still or moving thing you say.Two such as you with such a master speedCannot be parted nor be swept awayFrom one another once you are agreedThat life is only life forevermoreTogether wing to wing and oar to oar The Most Of It He thought he kept the universe alone;For all the voice in answer he could wakeWas but the mocking echo of his ownFrom some tree-hidden cliff across the lake.Some morning from the boulder-broken beachHe would cry out on life, that what it wantsIs not its own love back in copy speech,But counter-love, original response.And nothing ever came of what he criedUnless it was the embodiment that crashedIn the cliff's talus on the other side,And then in the far distant water splashed,But after a time allowed for it to swim,Instead of proving human when it nearedAnd someone else additional to him,As a great buck it powerfully appeared,Pushing the crumpled water up ahead,And landed pouring like a waterfall,And stumbled through the rocks with horny tread,And forced the underbrush—and that was all. The Need Of Being Versed In Country Things The house had gone to bring againTo the midnight sky a sunset glow.Now the chimney was all of the house that stood,Like a pistil after the petals go. The barn opposed across the way,That would have joined the house in flameHad it been the will of the wind, was leftTo bear forsaken the place's name. No more it opened with all one endFor teams that came by the stony roadTo drum on the floor with scurrying hoofsAnd brush the mow with the summer load. The birds that came to it through the airAt broken windows flew out and in,Their murmur more like the sigh we sighFrom too much dwelling on what has been. Yet for them the lilac renewed its leaf,And the aged elm, though touched with fire;And the dry pump flung up an awkward arm;And the fence post carried a strand of wire. For them there was really nothing sad.But though they rejoiced in the nest they kept,One had to be versed in country thingsNot to believe the phoebes wept. The Objection To Being Stepped On At the end of the rowI stepped on the toeOf an unemployed hoe.It rose in offenseAnd struck me a blowIn the seat of my sense.It wasn't to blameBut I called it a name.And I must say it dealtMe a blow that I feltLike a malice prepense.You may call me a fool,But was there a ruleThe weapon should beTurned into a tool?And what do we see?The first tool I step onTurned into a weapon. The Oft-Repeated Dream She had no saying dark enoughFor the dark pine that keptForever trying the window latchOf the room where they slept. The tireless but ineffectual handsThat with every futile passMade the great tree seem as a little birdBefore the mystery of glass! It never had been inside the room,And only one of the twoWas afraid in an oft-repeated dreamOf what the tree might do. The Onset ALWAYS the same, when on a fated nightAt last the gathered snow lets down as whiteAs may be in dark woods, and with a songIt shall not make again all winter longOf hissing on the yet uncovered ground,I almost stumble looking up and round,As one who overtaken by the endGives up his errand, and lets death descendUpon him where he is, with nothing doneTo evil, no important triumph won,More than if life had never been begun. Yet all the precedent is on my side:I know that winter death has never triedThe earth but it has failed: the snow may heapIn long storms an undrifted four feet deepAs measured against maple, birch and oak,It cannot check the peeper's silver croak;And I shall see the snow all go down hillIn water of a slender April rillThat flashes tail through last year's withered brakeAnd dead weeds, like a disappearing snake.Nothing will be left white but here a birch,And there a clump of houses with a church. The Oven Bird There is a singer eveyone has heard,Loud, a mid-summer and a mid-wood bird,Who makes the solid tree trunks sound again.He says that leaves are old and that for flowersMid-summer is to spring as one to ten.He says the early petal-fall is past,When pear and cherry bloom went down in showersOn sunny days a moment overcast;And comes that other fall we name the fall.He says the highway dust is over all.The bird would cease and be as other birdsBut that he knows in singing not to sing.The question that he frames in all but wordsIs what to make of a diminished thing. The Pasture I'm going out to clean the pasture spring;I'll only stop to rake the leaves away(And wait to watch the water clear, I may):I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. I'm going out to fetch the little calfThat's standing by the mother. It's so young,It totters when she licks it with her tongue.I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. The Peaceful Shepherd If heaven were to do again,And on the pasture bars,I leaned to line the figures inBetween the dotted stars, I should be tempted to forget,I fear, the Crown of Rule,The Scales of Trade, the Cross of Faith,As hardly worth renewal. For these have governed in our lives,And see how men have warred.The Cross, the Crown, the Scales may allAs well have been the Sword. The Road Not Taken Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,And sorry I could not travel bothAnd be one traveler, long I stoodAnd looked down one as far as I couldTo where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair,And having perhaps the better claimBecause it was grassy and wanted wear,Though as for that the passing thereHad worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally layIn leaves no step had trodden black.Oh, I kept the first for another day!Yet knowing how way leads on to wayI doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sighSomewhere ages and ages hence:Two roads diverged in a wood, and I,I took the one less traveled by,And that has made all the difference. The Rose Family The rose is a rose,And was always a rose.But the theory now goesThat the apple's a rose,And the pear is, and so'sThe plum, I suppose.The dear only knowsWhat will next prove a rose.You, of course, are a rose -But were always a rose. The Runaway Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall,We stopped by a mountain pasture to say 'Whose colt?'A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall,The other curled at his breast. He dipped his headAnd snorted at us. And then he had to bolt.We heard the miniature thunder where he fled,And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and grey,Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes.'I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow.He isn't winter-broken. It isn't playWith the little fellow at all. He's running away.I doubt if even his mother could tell him, 'Sakes,It's only weather'. He'd think she didn't know !Where is his mother? He can't be out alone.'And now he comes again with a clatter of stoneAnd mounts the wall again with whited eyesAnd all his tail that isn't hair up straight.He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies.'Whoever it is that leaves him out so late,When other creatures have gone to stall and bin,Ought to be told to come and take him in.' The Secret Sits We dance round in a ring and suppose,But the Secret sits in the middle and knows. The Silken Tent She is as in a field a silken tentAt midday when the sunny summer breezeHas dried the dew and all its ropes relent,So that in guys it gently sways at ease,And its supporting central cedar pole,That is its pinnacle to heavenwardAnd signifies the sureness of the soul,Seems to owe naught to any single cord,But strictly held by none, is loosely boundBy countless silken ties of love and thoughtTo every thing on earth the compass round,And only by one's going slightly tautIn the capriciousness of summer airIs of the slightlest bondage made aware. The Soldier He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled,That lies unlifted now, come dew, come rust,But still lies pointed as it ploughed the dust.If we who sight along it round the world,See nothing worthy to have been its mark,It is because like men we look too near,Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere,Our missiles always make too short an arc.They fall, they rip the grass, they intersectThe curve of earth, and striking, break their own;They make us cringe for metal-point on stone.But this we know, the obstacle that checkedAnd tripped the body, shot the spirit onFurther than target ever showed or shone. The Sound Of Trees I wonder about the trees.Why do we wish to bearForever the noise of theseMore than another noiseSo close to our dwelling place?We suffer them by the dayTill we lose all measure of pace,And fixity in our joys,And acquire a listening air.They are that that talks of goingBut never gets away;And that talks no less for knowing,As it grows wiser and older,That now it means to stay.My feet tug at the floorAnd my head sways to my shoulderSometimes when I watch trees sway,From the window or the door.I shall set forth for somewhere,I shall make the reckless choiceSome day when they are in voiceAnd tossing so as to scareThe white clouds over them on.I shall have less to say,But I shall be gone. The Span Of Life The old dog barks backwards without getting up.I can remember when he was a pup.  Anonymous submission. The Times Table More than halfway up the passWas a spring with a broken drinking glass,And whether the farmer drank or notHis mare was sure to observe the spotBy cramping the wheel on a water-bar,turning her forehead with a star,And straining her ribs for a monster sigh;To which the farmer would make reply,'A sigh for every so many breath,And for every so many sigh a death.That's what I always tell my wifeIs the multiplication table of life.'The saying may be ever so true;But it's just the kind of a thing that youNor I, nor nobody else may say,Unless our purpose is doing harm,And then I know of no better wayTo close a road, abandon a farm,Reduce the births of the human race,And bring back nature in people's place. The Trial By Existence EVEN the bravest that are slain	 Shall not dissemble their surprise	On waking to find valor reign,	 Even as on earth, in paradise; 	And where they sought without the sword	        Wide fields of asphodel fore’er,	To find that the utmost reward	 Of daring should be still to dare.	 The light of heaven falls whole and white	 And is not shattered into dyes,	       The light for ever is morning light; 	 The hills are verdured pasture-wise; 	The angel hosts with freshness go,	 And seek with laughter what to brave; —	And binding all is the hushed snow	        Of the far-distant breaking wave.	 And from a cliff-top is proclaimed	 The gathering of the souls for birth,	The trial by existence named,	 The obscuration upon earth.	       And the slant spirits trooping by	 In streams and cross- and counter-streams	Can but give ear to that sweet cry	 For its suggestion of what dreams! 	 And the more loitering are turned	        To view once more the sacrifice	Of those who for some good discerned	 Will gladly give up paradise.	And a white shimmering concourse rolls	 Toward the throne to witness there	       The speeding of devoted souls	 Which God makes his especial care.	 And none are taken but who will,	 Having first heard the life read out	That opens earthward, good and ill,	        Beyond the shadow of a doubt; 	And very beautifully God limns,	 And tenderly, life’s little dream,	But naught extenuates or dims,	 Setting the thing that is supreme.	        Nor is there wanting in the press	 Some spirit to stand simply forth,	Heroic in its nakedness,	 Against the uttermost of earth.	The tale of earth’s unhonored things	        Sounds nobler there than ’neath the sun; 	And the mind whirls and the heart sings,	 And a shout greets the daring one.	 But always God speaks at the end:	 ’One thought in agony of strife	       The bravest would have by for friend,	 The memory that he chose the life; 	But the pure fate to which you go	 Admits no memory of choice,	Or the woe were not earthly woe	        To which you give the assenting voice.’	 And so the choice must be again,	 But the last choice is still the same; 	And the awe passes wonder then,	 And a hush falls for all acclaim.	       And God has taken a flower of gold	 And broken it, and used therefrom	The mystic link to bind and hold	 Spirit to matter till death come.	 ‘Tis of the essence of life here,	        Though we choose greatly, still to lack	The lasting memory at all clear,	 That life has for us on the wrack	Nothing but what we somehow chose; 	 Thus are we wholly stripped of pride	       In the pain that has but one close,	 Bearing it crushed and mystified. The Tuft Of Flowers I went to turn the grass once after oneWho mowed it in the dew before the sun. The dew was gone that made his blade so keenBefore I came to view the levelled scene. I looked for him behind an isle of trees;I listened for his whetstone on the breeze. But he had gone his way, the grass all mown,And I must be, as he had been,—alone, 'As all must be,' I said within my heart,'Whether they work together or apart.' But as I said it, swift there passed me byOn noiseless wing a bewildered butterfly, Seeking with memories grown dim over nightSome resting flower of yesterday's delight. And once I marked his flight go round and round,As where some flower lay withering on the ground. And then he flew as far as eye could see,And then on tremulous wing came back to me. I thought of questions that have no reply,And would have turned to toss the grass to dry; But he turned first, and led my eye to lookAt a tall tuft of flowers beside a brook, A leaping tongue of bloom the scythe had sparedBeside a reedy brook the scythe had bared. I left my place to know them by their name,Finding them butterfly-weed when I came. The mower in the dew had loved them thus,By leaving them to flourish, not for us, Nor yet to draw one thought of ours to him,But from sheer morning gladness at the brim. The butterfly and I had lit upon,Nevertheless, a message from the dawn, That made me hear the wakening birds around,And hear his long scythe whispering to the ground, And feel a spirit kindred to my own;So that henceforth I worked no more alone; But glad with him, I worked as with his aid,And weary, sought at noon with him the shade; And dreaming, as it were, held brotherly speechWith one whose thought I had not hoped to reach. 'Men work together,' I told him from the heart,'Whether they work together or apart.' The Vanishing Red He is said to have been the last Red manIn Action. And the Miller is said to have laughed--If you like to call such a sound a laugh.But he gave no one else a laugher's license.For he turned suddenly grave as if to say,'Whose business,--if I take it on myself,Whose business--but why talk round the barn?--When it's just that I hold with getting a thing done with.'You can't get back and see it as he saw it.It's too long a story to go into now.You'd have to have been there and lived it.They you wouldn't have looked on it as just a matterOf who began it between the two races. Some guttural exclamation of surpriseThe Red man gave in poking about the millOver the great big thumping shuffling millstoneDisgusted the Miller physically as comingFrom one who had no right to be heard from.'Come, John,' he said, 'you want to see the wheel-pint?' He took him down below a cramping rafter,And showed him, through a manhole in the floor,The water in desperate straits like frantic fish,Salmon and sturgeon, lashing with their tails.The he shut down the trap door with a ring in itThat jangled even above the general noise,And came upstairs alone--and gave that laugh,And said something to a man with a meal-sackThat the man with the meal-sack didn't catch--then.Oh, yes, he showed John the wheel-pit all right. The Vantage Point If tires of trees I seek again mankind, Well I know where to hie me--in the dawn,To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn. There amid loggin juniper reclined,Myself unseen, I see in white defined Far off the homes of men, and farther still,The graves of men on an opposing hill, Living or dead, whichever are to mind.And if by noon I have too much of these, I have but to turn on my arm, and lo,The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow, My breathing shakes the bluet like abreeze, I smell the earth, I smell the bruis&egrave;d plant, I look into the craterof the ant. They Were Welcome To Their Belief Grief may have thought it was grief.Care may have thought it was care.They were welcome to their belief,The overimportant pair. No, it took all the snows that clungTo the low roof over his bed,Beginning when he was young,To induce the one snow on his head. But whenever the roof camme whiteThe head in the dark belowWas a shade less the color of night,A shade more the color of snow. Grief may have thought it was grief.Care may have thought it was care.But neither one was the thiefOf his raven color of hair. To E.T. I slumbered with your poems on my breastSpread open as I dropped them half-read throughLike dove wings on a figure on a tombTo see, if in a dream they brought of you, I might not have the chance I missed in lifeThrough some delay, and call you to your faceFirst soldier, and then poet, and then both,Who died a soldier-poet of your race. I meant, you meant, that nothing should remainUnsaid between us, brother, and this remained--And one thing more that was not then to say:The Victory for what it lost and gained. You went to meet the shell's embrace of fireOn Vimy Ridge; and when you fell that dayThe war seemed over more for you than me,But now for me than you--the other way. How over, though, for even me who knewThe foe thrust back unsafe beyond the Rhine,If I was not to speak of it to youAnd see you pleased once more with words of mine? To Earthward Love at the lips was touchAs sweet as I could bear;And once that seemed too much;I lived on air That crossed me from sweet things,The flow of - was it muskFrom hidden grapevine springsDown hill at dusk? I had the swirl and acheFrom sprays of honeysuckleThat when they're gathered shakeDew on the knuckle. I craved strong sweets, but thoseSeemed strong when I was young;The petal of the roseIt was that stung. Now no joy but lacks saltThat is not dashed with painAnd weariness and fault;I crave the stain Of tears, the aftermarkOf almost too much love,The sweet of bitter barkAnd burning clove. When stiff and sore and scarredI take away my handFrom leaning on it hardIn grass and sand, The hurt is not enough:I long for weight and strengthTo feel the earth as roughTo all my length. To The Thawing Wind Come with rain. O loud Southwester!Bring the singer, bring the nester;Give the buried flower a dream;Make the settled snowbank steam;Find the brown beneath the white;But whate'er you do tonight,Bath my window, make it flow,Melt it as the ice will go;Melt the glass and leave the sticksLike a hermit's crucifix;Burst into my narrow stall;Swing the picture on the wall;Run the rattling pages o'er;Scatter poems on the floor;Turn the poet out of door. Tree At My Window Tree at my window, window tree,My sash is lowered when night comes on;But let there never be curtain drawnBetween you and me. Vague dream head lifted out of the ground,And thing next most diffuse to cloud,Not all your light tongues talking aloudCould be profound. But tree, I have seen you taken and tossed,And if you have seen me when I slept,You have seen me when I was taken and sweptAnd all but lost. That day she put our heads together,Fate had her imagination about her,Your head so much concerned with outer,Mine with inner, weather. Two Look At Two Love and forgetting might have carried themA little further up the mountain sideWith night so near, but not much further up.They must have halted soon in any caseWith thoughts of a path back, how rough it wasWith rock and washout, and unsafe in darkness;When they were halted by a tumbled wallWith barbed-wire binding. They stood facing this,Spending what onward impulse they still hadIn One last look the way they must not go,On up the failing path, where, if a stoneOr earthslide moved at night, it moved itself;No footstep moved it. 'This is all,' they sighed,Good-night to woods.' But not so; there was more.A doe from round a spruce stood looking at themAcross the wall, as near the wall as they.She saw them in their field, they her in hers.The difficulty of seeing what stood still,Like some up-ended boulder split in two,Was in her clouded eyes; they saw no fear there.She seemed to think that two thus they were safe.Then, as if they were something that, though strange,She could not trouble her mind with too long,She sighed and passed unscared along the wall.'This, then, is all. What more is there to ask?'But no, not yet. A snort to bid them wait.A buck from round the spruce stood looking at themAcross the wall as near the wall as they.This was an antlered buck of lusty nostril,Not the same doe come back into her place.He viewed them quizzically with jerks of head,As if to ask, 'Why don't you make some motion?Or give some sign of life? Because you can't.I doubt if you're as living as you look."Thus till he had them almost feeling daredTo stretch a proffering hand -- and a spell-breaking.Then he too passed unscared along the wall.Two had seen two, whichever side you spoke from.'This must be all.' It was all. Still they stood,A great wave from it going over them,As if the earth in one unlooked-for favourHad made them certain earth returned their love. Two Tramps In Mud Time Out of the mud two strangers cameAnd caught me splitting wood in the yard,And one of them put me off my aimBy hailing cheerily "Hit them hard!"I knew pretty well why he had dropped behindAnd let the other go on a way.I knew pretty well what he had in mind:He wanted to take my job for pay. Good blocks of oak it was I split,As large around as the chopping block;And every piece I squarely hitFell splinterless as a cloven rock.The blows that a life of self-controlSpares to strike for the common good,That day, giving a loose my soul,I spent on the unimportant wood. The sun was warm but the wind was chill.You know how it is with an April dayWhen the sun is out and the wind is still,You're one month on in the middle of May.But if you so much as dare to speak,A cloud comes over the sunlit arch,A wind comes off a frozen peak,And you're two months back in the middle of March. A bluebird comes tenderly up to alightAnd turns to the wind to unruffle a plume,His song so pitched as not to exciteA single flower as yet to bloom.It is snowing a flake; and he half knewWinter was only playing possum.Except in color he isn't blue,But he wouldn't advise a thing to blossom. The water for which we may have to lookIn summertime with a witching wand,In every wheelrut's now a brook,In every print of a hoof a pond.Be glad of water, but don't forgetThe lurking frost in the earth beneathThat will steal forth after the sun is setAnd show on the water its crystal teeth. The time when most I loved my taskThe two must make me love it moreBy coming with what they came to ask.You'd think I never had felt beforeThe weight of an ax-head poised aloft,The grip of earth on outspread feet,The life of muscles rocking softAnd smooth and moist in vernal heat. Out of the wood two hulking tramps(From sleeping God knows where last night,But not long since in the lumber camps).They thought all chopping was theirs of right.Men of the woods and lumberjacks,They judged me by their appropriate tool.Except as a fellow handled an axThey had no way of knowing a fool. Nothing on either side was said.They knew they had but to stay their stay And all their logic would fill my head:As that I had no right to playWith what was another man's work for gain.My right might be love but theirs was need.And where the two exist in twainTheirs was the better right--agreed. But yield who will to their separation,My object in living is to uniteMy avocation and my vocationAs my two eyes make one in sight.Only where love and need are one,And the work is play for mortal stakes,Is the deed ever really doneFor Heaven and the future's sakes. Unharvested A scent of ripeness from over a wall.And come to leave the routine roadAnd look for what had made me stall,There sure enough was an apple treeThat had eased itself of its summer load,And of all but its trivial foliage free,Now breathed as light as a lady's fan.For there had been an apple fallAs complete as the apple had given man.The ground was one circle of solid red. May something go always unharvested!May much stay out of our stated plan,Apples or something forgotten and left,So smelling their sweetness would be no theft. Waiting  -- Afield At Dusk What things for dream there are when spectre-like,Moving among tall haycocks lightly piled,I enter alone upon the stubble field,From which the laborers' voices late have died,And in the antiphony of afterglowAnd rising full moon, sit me downUpon the full moon's side of the first haycockAnd lose myself amid so many alike.I dream upon the opposing lights of the hour,Preventing shadow until the moon prevail;I dream upon the night-hawks peopling heaven,Each circling each with vague unearthly cry,Or plunging headlong with fierce twang afar;And on the bat's mute antics, who would seemDimly to have made out my secret place,Only to lose it when he pirouettes,And seek it endlessly with purblind haste;On the last swallow's sweep; and on the raspIn the abyss of odor and rustle at my back,That, silenced by my advent, finds once more,After an interval, his instrument,And tries once-twice-and thrice if I be there;And on the worn book of old-golden songI brought not here to read, it seems, but holdAnd freshen in this air of withering sweetness;But on the memory of one absent most,For whom these lines when they shall greet her eye. What Fifty Said.. When I was young my teachers were the old.I gave up fire for form till I was cold.I suffered like a metal being cast.I went to school to age to learn the past. Now when I am old my teachers are the young.What can't be molded must be cracked and sprung.I strain at lessons fit to start a suture.I got to school to youth to learn the future. Wind And Window Flower Lovers, forget your love,And list to the love of these,She a window flower,And he a winter breeze.When the frosty window veilWas melted down at noon,And the cagèd yellow birdHung over her in tune,He marked her through the pane,He could not help but mark,And only passed her by,To come again at dark.He was a winter wind,Concerned with ice and snow,Dead weeds and unmated birds,And little of love could know.But he sighed upon the sill,He gave the sash a shake,As witness all withinWho lay that night awake.Perchance he half prevailedTo win her for the flightFrom the firelit looking-glassAnd warm stove-window light.But the flower leaned asideAnd thought of naught to say,And morning found the breezeA hundred miles away. #Dahl"Mike Teavee..." The most important thing we've learned,So far as children are concerned,Is never, NEVER, NEVER letThem near your television set --Or better still, just don't installThe idiotic thing at all.In almost every house we've been,We've watched them gaping at the screen.They loll and slop and lounge about,And stare until their eyes pop out.(Last week in someone's place we sawA dozen eyeballs on the floor.)They sit and stare and stare and sitUntil they're hypnotised by it,Until they're absolutely drunkWith all that shocking ghastly junk.Oh yes, we know it keeps them still,They don't climb out the window sill,They never fight or kick or punch,They leave you free to cook the lunchAnd wash the dishes in the sink --But did you ever stop to think,To wonder just exactly whatThis does to your beloved tot?IT ROTS THE SENSE IN THE HEAD!IT KILLS IMAGINATION DEAD!IT CLOGS AND CLUTTERS UP THE MIND!IT MAKES A CHILD SO DULL AND BLINDHE CAN NO LONGER UNDERSTANDA FANTASY, A FAIRYLAND!HIS BRAIN BECOMES AS SOFT AS CHEESE!HIS POWERS OF THINKING RUST AND FREEZE!HE CANNOT THINK -- HE ONLY SEES!'All right!' you'll cry. 'All right!' you'll say,'But if we take the set away,What shall we do to entertainOur darling children? Please explain!'We'll answer this by asking you,'What used the darling ones to do?'How used they keep themselves contentedBefore this monster was invented?'Have you forgotten? Don't you know?We'll say it very loud and slow:THEY ... USED ... TO ... READ! They'd READ and READ,AND READ and READ, and then proceedTo READ some more. Great Scott! Gadzooks!One half their lives was reading books!The nursery shelves held books galore!Books cluttered up the nursery floor!And in the bedroom, by the bed,More books were waiting to be read!Such wondrous, fine, fantastic talesOf dragons, gypsies, queens, and whalesAnd treasure isles, and distant shoresWhere smugglers rowed with muffled oars,And pirates wearing purple pants,And sailing ships and elephants,And cannibals crouching 'round the pot,Stirring away at something hot.(It smells so good, what can it be?Good gracious, it's Penelope.)The younger ones had Beatrix PotterWith Mr. Tod, the dirty rotter,And Squirrel Nutkin, Pigling Bland,And Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle and-Just How The Camel Got His Hump,And How the Monkey Lost His Rump,And Mr. Toad, and bless my soul,There's Mr. Rat and Mr. Mole-Oh, books, what books they used to know,Those children living long ago!So please, oh please, we beg, we pray,Go throw your TV set away,And in its place you can installA lovely bookshelf on the wall.Then fill the shelves with lots of books,Ignoring all the dirty looks,The screams and yells, the bites and kicks,And children hitting you with sticks-Fear not, because we promise youThat, in about a week or twoOf having nothing else to do,They'll now begin to feel the needOf having something to read.And once they start -- oh boy, oh boy!You watch the slowly growing joyThat fills their hearts. They'll grow so keenThey'll wonder what they'd ever seenIn that ridiculous machine,That nauseating, foul, unclean,Repulsive television screen!And later, each and every kidWill love you more for what you did. Attention Please! Attention Please! 'Attention please! Attention please!Don't dare to talk! Don't dare to sneeze!Don't doze or daydream! Stay awake!Your health, your very life's at stake!Ho–ho, you say, they can't mean me.Ha–ha, we answer, wait and see. Did any of you ever meetA child called Goldie Pinklesweet?Who on her seventh birthday wentTo stay with Granny down in Kent.At lunchtime on the second dayOf dearest little Goldie's stay,Granny announced, 'I'm going downTo do some shopping in the town.'(D'you know why Granny didn't tellThe child to come along as well?She's going to the nearest innTo buy herself a double gin.) So out she creeps. She shuts the door.And Goldie, after making sureThat she is really by herself,Goes quickly to the medicine shelf,And there, her little greedy eyesSee pills of every shape and size,Such fascinating colours too ––Some green, some pink, some brown, some blue.'All right,' she says, 'let's try the brown,'She takes one pill and gulps it down.'Yum–yum!' she cries. 'Hooray! What fun!They're chocolate–coated, every one!'She gobbles five, she gobbles ten,She stops her gobbling only whenThe last pill's gone. There are no more.Slowly she rises from the floor.She stops. She hiccups. Dear, oh dear,She starts to feel a trifle queer. You see, how could young Goldie know,For nobody had told her so,That Grandmama, her old relationSuffered from frightful constipation.This meant that every night she'd giveHerself a powerful laxative,And all the medicines that she'd boughtWere naturally of this sort.The pink and red and blue and greenWere all extremely strong and mean.But far more fierce and meaner still,Was Granny's little chocolate pill.Its blast effect was quite uncanny.It used to shake up even Granny.In point of fact she did not dareTo use them more than twice a year.So can you wonder little GoldieBegan to feel a wee bit moldy? Inside her tummy, something stirred.A funny gurgling sound was heard,And then, oh dear, from deep within,The ghastly rumbling sounds begin!They rumbilate and roar and boom!They bounce and echo round the room!The floorboards shake and from the wallSome bits of paint and plaster fall.Explosions, whistles, awful bangsWere followed by the loudest clangs.(A man next door was heard to say,'A thunderstorm is on the way.')But on and on the rumbling goes.A window cracks, a lamp–bulb blows.Young Goldie clutched herself and cried,'There's something wrong with my inside!'This was, we very greatly fear,The understatement of the year.For wouldn't any child feel crummy,With loud explosions in her tummy? Granny, at half past two, came in,Weaving a little from the gin,But even so she quickly sawThe empty bottle on the floor.'My precious laxatives!' she cried.'I don't feel well,' the girl replied.Angrily Grandma shook her head.'I'm really not surprised,' she said.'Why can't you leave my pills alone?'With that, she grabbed the telephoneAnd shouted, 'Listen, send us quickAn ambulance! A child is sick!It's number fifty, Fontwell Road!Come fast! I think she might explode!' We're sure you do not wish to hearAbout the hospital and whereThey did a lot of horrid thingsWith stomach–pumps and rubber rings.Let's answer what you want to know;Did Goldie live or did she go?The doctors gathered round her bed,'There's really not much hope,' they said.'She's going, going, gone!' they cried.'She's had her chips! She's dead! She's died!''I'm not so sure,' the child replied.And all at once she opened wideHer great big bluish eyes and sighed,And gave the anxious docs a wink,And said, 'I'll be okay, I think.' So Goldie lived and back she wentAt first to Granny's place in Kent.Her father came the second dayAnd fetched her in a Chevrolet,And drove her to their home in Dover.But Goldie's troubles were not over.You see, if someone takes enoughOf any highly dangerous stuff,One will invariably findSome traces of it left behind.It pains us greatly to relateThat Goldie suffered from this fate.She'd taken such a massive fillOf this unpleasant kind of pill,It got into her blood and bones,It messed up all her chromosomes,It made her constantly upset,And she could never really getThe beastly stuff to go away.And so the girl was forced to stayFor seven hours every dayWithin the everlasting gloomOf what we call The Ladies Room.And after all, the W.C.Is not the gayest place to be.So now, before it is too late.Take heed of Goldie's dreadful fate.And seriously, all jokes apart,Do promise us across your heartThat you will never help yourselfTo medicine from the medicine shelf.' Augustus Gloop! Augustus Gloop 'Augustus Gloop! Augustus Gloop!The great big greedy nincompoop!How long could we allow this beastTo gorge and guzzle, feed and feastOn everything he wanted to?Great Scott! It simply wouldn't do!However long this pig might live,We're positive he'd never giveEven the smallest bit of funOr happiness to anyone.So what we do in cases suchAs this, we use the gentle touch,And carefully we take the bratAnd turn him into something thatWill give great pleasure to us all–A doll, for instance, or a ball,Or marbles or a rocking horse.But this revolting boy, of course,Was so unutterably vile,So greedy, foul, and infantileHe left a most disgusting tasteInside our mouths, and so in hasteWe chose a thing that, come what may,Would take the nasty taste away.'Come on!' we cried, 'The time is ripeTo send him shooting up the pipe!He has to go! It has to be!'And very soon, he's going to seeInside the room to which he's goneSome funny things are going on.But don't, dear children, be alarmed;Augustus Gloop will not be harmed,Although, of course, we must admitHe will be altered quite a bit.He'll be quite changed from what he's been,When he goes through the fudge machine:Slowly, the wheels go round and round,The cogs begin to grind and pound;A hundred knives go slice, slice, slice;We add some sugar, cream, and spice;We boil him for a minute more,Until we're absolutely sureThat all the greed and all the gallIs boiled away for once and all.Then out he comes! And now! By grace!A miracle has taken place!This boy, who only just beforeWas loathed by men from shore to shore,This greedy brute, this louse's ear,Is loved by people everywhere!For who could hate or bear a grudgeAgainst a luscious bit of fudge?' Candy Man Who can take a sunrise, sprinkle it with dewCover it in chocolate and a miracle or twoThe candy man, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good Who can take a rainbow, wrap it in a sighSoak it in the sun and make a strawberry–lemon pieThe candy man?The candy man, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good Willy Wonka makes everything he bakesSatisfying and deliciousTalk about your childhood wishesYou can even eat the dishes Who can take tomorrow, dip it in a dreamSeparate the sorrow and collect up all the creamThe candy man, Willy Wonka can, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good And the world tastes good'Cause the candy man thinks it should Cinderella I guess you think you know this story.You don't. The real one's much more gory.The phoney one, the one you know,Was cooked up years and years ago,And made to sound all soft and sappyjust to keep the children happy.Mind you, they got the first bit right,The bit where, in the dead of night,The Ugly Sisters, jewels and all,Departed for the Palace Ball,While darling little CinderellaWas locked up in a slimy cellar,Where rats who wanted things to eat,Began to nibble at her feet. She bellowed 'Help!' and 'Let me out!The Magic Fairy heard her shout.Appearing in a blaze of light,She said: 'My dear, are you all right?''All right?' cried Cindy .'Can't you see'I feel as rotten as can be!'She beat her fist against the wall,And shouted, 'Get me to the Ball!'There is a Disco at the Palace!'The rest have gone and I am jealous!'I want a dress! I want a coach!'And earrings and a diamond brooch!'And silver slippers, two of those!'And lovely nylon panty hose!'Done up like that I'll guarantee'The handsome Prince will fall for me!'The Fairy said, 'Hang on a tick.'She gave her wand a mighty flickAnd quickly, in no time at all,Cindy was at the Palace Ball! It made the Ugly Sisters winceTo see her dancing with the Prince.She held him very tight and pressedherself against his manly chest.The Prince himself was turned to pulp,All he could do was gasp and gulp.Then midnight struck. She shouted,'Heck!I've got to run to save my neck!'The Prince cried, 'No! Alas! Alack!'He grabbed her dress to hold her back.As Cindy shouted, 'Let me go!'The dress was ripped from head to toe. She ran out in her underwear,And lost one slipper on the stair.The Prince was on it like a dart,He pressed it to his pounding heart,'The girl this slipper fits,' he cried,'Tomorrow morn shall be my bride!I'll visit every house in town'Until I've tracked the maiden down!'Then rather carelessly, I fear,He placed it on a crate of beer. At once, one of the Ugly Sisters,(The one whose face was blotched with blisters)Sneaked up and grabbed the dainty shoe,And quickly flushed it down the loo.Then in its place she calmly putThe slipper from her own left foot.Ah ha, you see, the plot grows thicker,And Cindy's luck starts looking sicker. Next day, the Prince went charging downTo knock on all the doors in town.In every house, the tension grew.Who was the owner of the shoe?The shoe was long and very wide.(A normal foot got lost inside.)Also it smelled a wee bit icky.(The owner's feet were hot and sticky.)Thousands of eager people cameTo try it on, but all in vain.Now came the Ugly Sisters' go.One tried it on. The Prince screamed, 'No!'But she screamed, 'Yes! It fits! Whoopee!'So now you've got to marry me!'The Prince went white from ear to ear.He muttered, 'Let me out of here.''Oh no you don't! You made a vow!'There's no way you can back out now!''Off with her head!'The Prince roared back.They chopped it off with one big whack.This pleased the Prince. He smiled and said,'She's prettier without her head.'Then up came Sister Number Two,Who yelled, 'Now I will try the shoe!''Try this instead!' the Prince yelled back.He swung his trusty sword and smackHer head went crashing to the ground.It bounced a bit and rolled around.In the kitchen, peeling spuds,Cinderella heard the thudsOf bouncing heads upon the floor,And poked her own head round the door.'What's all the racket? 'Cindy cried.'Mind your own bizz,' the Prince replied.Poor Cindy's heart was torn to shreds.My Prince! she thought. He chops off heads!How could I marry anyoneWho does that sort of thing for fun? The Prince cried, 'Who's this dirty slut?'Off with her nut! Off with her nut!'Just then, all in a blaze of light,The Magic Fairy hove in sight,Her Magic Wand went swoosh and swish!'Cindy! 'she cried, 'come make a wish!'Wish anything and have no doubt'That I will make it come about!'Cindy answered, 'Oh kind Fairy,'This time I shall be more wary.'No more Princes, no more money.'I have had my taste of honey.I'm wishing for a decent man.'They're hard to find. D'you think you can?'Within a minute, CinderellaWas married to a lovely feller,A simple jam maker by trade,Who sold good home-made marmalade.Their house was filled with smiles and laughterAnd they were happy ever after. Down They Go... Down they go!Hail and snow!Freezes and sneezes and noses will blow! Excerpt – 'This famous wicked little taleShould never have been put on saleIt is a mystery to meWhy loving parents cannot seeThat this is actually a bookAbout a brazen little crook...' '...Now just imagine how you'd feelIf you had cooked a lovely meal,Delicious porridge, steaming hot,Fresh coffee in the coffee pot,With maybe toast and marmalade,The table beautifully laid,One place for you and one for dad,Another for your little lad.Then dad cries, 'Golly–gosh! Gee whizz!'Oh cripes! How hot this porridge is!'Let's take a walk along the street'Until it's cool enough to eat.'He adds, 'An early morning stroll'Is good for people on the whole.'It makes your appetite improve'It also helps your bowels move.'No proper wife would dare to questionSuch a sensible suggestion,Above all not at breakfast–timeWhen men are seldom at their prime.No sooner are you down the roadThan Goldilocks, that little toadThat nosey thieving little louse,Comes sneaking in your empty house....' '...(Here comes the next catastrophe.)Most educated people chooseTo rid themselves of socks and shoesBefore they clamber into bed.But Goldie didn't give a shred.Her filthy shoes were thick with grime,And mud and mush and slush and slime.Worse still, upon the heel of oneWas something that a dog had done.I say once more, what would you thinkIf all this horrid dirt and stinkWas smeared upon your eiderdownBy this revolting little clown?(The famous story has no cluesTo show the girl removed her shoes.) Oh, what a tale of crime on crime!Let's check it for a second time. Crime One, the prosecution's case:She breaks and enters someone's place. Crime Two, the prosecutor notes:She steals a bowl of porridge oats. Crime Three: She breaks a precious chairBelonging to the Baby Bear. Crime Four: She smears each spotless sheetWith filthy messes from her feet. A judge would say without a blink,'Ten years hard labour in the clink!'But in the book, as you will see,The little beast gets off scot–free,While tiny children near and farShout 'Goody–good! Hooray! Hurrah!''Poor darling Goldilocks!' they say,'Thank goodness that she got away!'Myself, I think I'd rather sendYoung Goldie to a sticky end.'Oh daddy!' cried the Baby Bear,'My porridge gone! It isn't fair!''Then go upstairs,' the Big Bear said,'Your porridge is upon the bed.'But as it's inside mademoiselle,'You'll have to eat her up as well.' Hey Diddle Diddle Hey diddle diddleWe're all on the fiddleAnd never get up until noon.We only take cashWhich we carefully stashAnd we work by the light of the moon. Hot And Cold A woman who my mother knowsCame in and took off all her clothes. Said I, not being very old,'By golly gosh, you must be cold!' 'No, no!' she cried. 'Indeed I'm not!I'm feeling devilishly hot!' I Had A Little Nut-Tree, I had a little nut-tree,Nothing would it bear.I searched in all its branches,But not a nut was there. 'Oh, little tree,' I begged,'Give me just a few.'The little tree looked down at meAnd whispered, 'Nuts to you.' I Want It Now Gooses, geesesI want my geese to lay gold eggs for easterAt least a hundred a dayAnd by the way I want a feastI want a bean feastCream buns and doughnutsAnd fruitcake with no nutsSo good you could go nuts No, now I want a ballI want a partyPink macaroonsAnd a million balloonsAnd performing baboons andGive it to me now I want the worldI want the whole worldI want to lock itAll up in my pocketIt's my bar of chocolateGive it to me now I want todayI want tomorrowI want to wear 'emLike braids in my hair andI don't want to share 'em I want a party with roomfuls of laughterTen thousand tons of ice creamAnd if I don't get the things I am afterI'm going to scream I want the worksI want the whole worksPresents and prizesAnd sweets and surprisesOf all shapes and sizes And now Don't care how, I want it nowDon't care how, I want it now If You Are Old And Have The Shakes 'If you are old and have the shakes,If all your bones are full of aches,If you can hardly walk at all,If living drives you up the wall,If you're a grump and full of spite,If you're a human parasite,THEN WHAT YOU NEED IS WONKA–VITE!Your eyes will shine, your hair will grow,Your face and skin will start to glow,Your rotten teeth will all drop outAnd in their place new teeth will sprout.Those rolls of fat around your hipsWill vanish, and your wrinkled lipsWill get so soft and rosy–pinkThat all the boys will smile and winkAnd whisper secretly that thisIs just the girl they want to kiss!But wait! For that is not the mostImportant thing of which to boast.Good looks you'll have, we've told you so,But looks aren't everything, you know.Each pill, as well, to you will giveAN EXTRA TWENTY YEARS TO LIVE!So come, old friends, and do what's right!Let's make your lives as bright as bright!Let's take a dose of this delight!This heavenly magic dynamite!You can't go wrong, you must go right!IT'S WILLY WONKA'S WONKA–VITE!' I'Ve Got A Golden Ticket I never thought my life could beAnything but catastropheBut suddenly I begin to seeA bit of good luck for me 'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden twinkle in my eye I never had a chance to shineNever a happy song to singBut suddenly half the world is mineWhat an amazing thing 'Cause I've got a golden ticketIt's ours, CharlieI've got a golden sun up in the sky I never thought I'd see the dayWhen I would face the world and sayGood morning, look at the sunI never thought that I would beSlap in the lap of luxury'Cause I'd have said it couldn't be doneBut it can be done I never dreamed that I would climbOver the moon in ecstasyBut nevertheless, it's there that I'mShortly about to be 'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden chance to make my wayAnd with a golden ticket, it's a golden day Good morning, look at the sun'Cause I'd have said it couldn't be doneBut it can be done I never dreamed that I would climbOver the moon in ecstasyBut nevertheless, it's there that I'mShortly about to be 'Cause I've got a golden ticket'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden chance to make my wayAnd with a golden ticket, it's a golden day Little Red Riding Hood And The Wolf As soon as Wolf began to feelThat he would like a decent meal,He went and knocked on Grandma's door.When Grandma opened it, she sawThe sharp white teeth, the horrid grin,And Wolfie said, 'May I come in?'Poor Grandmamma was terrified,'He's going to eat me up!' she cried.And she was absolutely right.He ate her up in one big bite.But Grandmamma was small and tough,And Wolfie wailed, 'That's not enough!I haven't yet begun to feelThat I have had a decent meal!'He ran around the kitchen yelping,'I've got to have a second helping!' Then added with a frightful leer,'I'm therefore going to wait right hereTill Little Miss Red Riding HoodComes home from walking in the wood.' He quickly put on Grandma's clothes,(Of course he hadn't eaten those).He dressed himself in coat and hat.He put on shoes, and after that,He even brushed and curled his hair,Then sat himself in Grandma's chair. In came the little girl in red.She stopped. She stared. And then she said,'What great big ears you have, Grandma.''All the better to hear you with,'the Wolf replied.'What great big eyes you have, Grandma.'said Little Red Riding Hood.'All the better to see you with,'the Wolf replied.He sat there watching her and smiled.He thought, I'm going to eat this child.Compared with her old Grandmamma,She's going to taste like caviar. Then Little Red Riding Hood said, 'But Grandma, what a lovely great bigfurry coat you have on.' 'That's wrong!' cried Wolf.'Have you forgotTo tell me what BIG TEETH I've got?Ah well, no matter what you say,I'm going to eat you anyway.' The small girl smiles. One eyelid flickers.She whips a pistol from her knickers.She aims it at the creature's head,And bang bang bang, she shoots him dead. A few weeks later, in the wood,I came across Miss Riding Hood.But what a change! No cloak of red,No silly hood upon her head.She said, 'Hello, and do please noteMy lovely furry wolfskin coat.' Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary Mary, Mary, quite contraryHow does your garden grow?'I live with my brat in a high-rise flat,So how in the world would I know.' My Teacher Wasn'T Half As Nice As Yours Seems ToBe 'My teacher wasn't half as nice as yours seems to be.His name was Mister Unsworth and he taught us history.And when you didn't know a date he'd get you by the earAnd start to twist while you sat there quite paralysed with fear.He'd twist and twist and twist your ear and twist it more and more.Until at last the ear came off and landed on the floor.Our class was full of one-eared boys. I'm certain there were eight.Who'd had them twisted off because they didn't know a date.So let us now praise teachers who today are all so fineAnd yours in particular is totally divine.' Oh You Knid, You Are Vile And Vermicious.... Oh you Knid, you are vile and vermicious!You are slimy and soggy and squishous!But what do we care'Cause you can't get in here,So hop it and don't get ambitious! Pure Imagination Come with me and you'll beIn a world of pure imaginationTake a look and you'll seeInto your imagination We'll begin with a spinTrav'ling in the world of my creationWhat we'll see will defyExplanation {Refrain} If you want to view paradiseSimply look around and view itAnything you want to, do itWant to change the world, there's nothing to it There is no life I knowTo compare with pure imaginationLiving there, you'll be freeIf you truly wish to be {Refrain} There is no life I knowTo compare with pure imaginationLiving there, you'll be freeIf you truly wish to be St Ives As I was going to St IvesI met a man with seven wivesSaid he, 'I think it's much more funThan getting stuck with only one.' Television The most important thing we've learned,So far as children are concerned,Is never, NEVER, NEVER letThem near your television set --Or better still, just don't installThe idiotic thing at all.In almost every house we've been,We've watched them gaping at the screen.They loll and slop and lounge about,And stare until their eyes pop out.(Last week in someone's place we sawA dozen eyeballs on the floor.)They sit and stare and stare and sitUntil they're hypnotised by it,Until they're absolutely drunkWith all that shocking ghastly junk.Oh yes, we know it keeps them still,They don't climb out the window sill,They never fight or kick or punch,They leave you free to cook the lunchAnd wash the dishes in the sink --But did you ever stop to think,To wonder just exactly whatThis does to your beloved tot?IT ROTS THE SENSE IN THE HEAD!IT KILLS IMAGINATION DEAD!IT CLOGS AND CLUTTERS UP THE MIND!IT MAKES A CHILD SO DULL AND BLINDHE CAN NO LONGER UNDERSTANDA FANTASY, A FAIRYLAND!HIS BRAIN BECOMES AS SOFT AS CHEESE!HIS POWERS OF THINKING RUST AND FREEZE!HE CANNOT THINK -- HE ONLY SEES!'All right!' you'll cry. 'All right!' you'll say,'But if we take the set away,What shall we do to entertainOur darling children? Please explain!'We'll answer this by asking you,'What used the darling ones to do?'How used they keep themselves contentedBefore this monster was invented?'Have you forgotten? Don't you know?We'll say it very loud and slow:THEY ... USED ... TO ... READ! They'd READ and READ,AND READ and READ, and then proceedTo READ some more. Great Scott! Gadzooks!One half their lives was reading books!The nursery shelves held books galore!Books cluttered up the nursery floor!And in the bedroom, by the bed,More books were waiting to be read!Such wondrous, fine, fantastic talesOf dragons, gypsies, queens, and whalesAnd treasure isles, and distant shoresWhere smugglers rowed with muffled oars,And pirates wearing purple pants,And sailing ships and elephants,And cannibals crouching 'round the pot,Stirring away at something hot.(It smells so good, what can it be?Good gracious, it's Penelope.)The younger ones had Beatrix PotterWith Mr. Tod, the dirty rotter,And Squirrel Nutkin, Pigling Bland,And Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle and-Just How The Camel Got His Hump,And How the Monkey Lost His Rump,And Mr. Toad, and bless my soul,There's Mr. Rat and Mr. Mole-Oh, books, what books they used to know,Those children living long ago!So please, oh please, we beg, we pray,Go throw your TV set away,And in its place you can installA lovely bookshelf on the wall.Then fill the shelves with lots of books,Ignoring all the dirty looks,The screams and yells, the bites and kicks,And children hitting you with sticks-Fear not, because we promise youThat, in about a week or twoOf having nothing else to do,They'll now begin to feel the needOf having something to read.And once they start -- oh boy, oh boy!You watch the slowly growing joyThat fills their hearts. They'll grow so keenThey'll wonder what they'd ever seenIn that ridiculous machine,That nauseating, foul, unclean,Repulsive television screen!And later, each and every kidWill love you more for what you did. The Crocodile 'No animal is half as vileAs Crocky-Wock, the crocodile.On Saturdays he likes to crunchSix juicy children for his lunchAnd he especially enjoysJust three of each, three girls, three boys.He smears the boys (to make them hot)With mustard from the mustard pot.But mustard doesn't go with girls,It tastes all wrong with plaits and curls.With them, what goes extremely wellIs butterscotch and caramel.It's such a super marvelous treatWhen boys are hot and girls are sweet.At least that's Crocky's point of viewHe ought to know. He's had a few.That's all for now. It's time for bed.Lie down and rest your sleepy head.Ssh. Listen. What is that I hear,Galumphing softly up the stair? Go lock the door and fetch my gun!Go on child, hurry! Quickly run!No stop! Stand back! He's coming in!Oh, look, that greasy greenish skin!The shining teeth, the greedy smile!It's Crocky-Wock, the Crocodile!' The Pig In England once there lived a bigAnd wonderfully clever pig.To everybody it was plainThat Piggy had a massive brain.He worked out sums inside his head,There was no book he hadn't read.He knew what made an airplane fly,He knew how engines worked and why.He knew all this, but in the endOne question drove him round the bend:He simply couldn't puzzle outWhat LIFE was really all about.What was the reason for his birth?Why was he placed upon this earth?His giant brain went round and round.Alas, no answer could be found.Till suddenly one wondrous night.All in a flash he saw the light.He jumped up like a ballet dancerAnd yelled, 'By gum, I've got the answer! ''They want my bacon slice by slice'To sell at a tremendous price!'They want my tender juicy chops'To put in all the butcher's shops!'They want my pork to make a roast'And that's the part'll cost the most!'They want my sausages in strings!'They even want my chitterlings!'The butcher's shop! The carving knife!'That is the reason for my life! 'Such thoughts as these are not designedTo give a pig great peace of mind.Next morning, in comes Farmer Bland,A pail of pigswill in his hand,And piggy with a mighty roar,Bashes the farmer to the floor…Now comes the rather grisly bitSo let's not make too much of it,Except that you must understandThat Piggy did eat Farmer Bland,He ate him up from head to toe,Chewing the pieces nice and slow.It took an hour to reach the feet,Because there was so much to eat,And when he finished, Pig, of course,Felt absolutely no remorse.Slowly he scratched his brainy headAnd with a little smile he said,'I had a fairly powerful hunch'That he might have me for his lunch.'And so, because I feared the worst,'I thought I'd better eat him first.' The Rowing Song Round the world and home againThat's the sailor's wayFaster faster, faster faster There's no earthly way of knowingWhich direction we are goingThere's no knowing where we're rowingOr which way the river's flowing Is it raining, is it snowingIs a hurricane a–blowing Not a speck of light is showingSo the danger must be growingAre the fires of Hell a–glowingIs the grisly reaper mowing Yes, the danger must be growingFor the rowers keep on rowingAnd they're certainly not showingAny signs that they are slowing. There's No Earthly Way Of Knowing There's no earthly way of knowingWhich direction they are going!There's no knowing where they're rowing,Or which way they river's flowing!Not a speck of light is showing,So the danger must be growing,For the rowers keep on rowing,And they're certainly not showingAny signs that they are slowing... Veruca Salt, The Little Brute 'Veruca Salt, the little brute,Has just gone down the garbage chute,(And as we very rightly thoughtThat in a case like this we oughtTo see the thing completely through,We've polished off her parents, too.)Down goes Veruca! Down the drain!And here, perhaps, we should explainThat she will meet, as she descends,A rather different set of friendsTo those that she has left behind–These won't be nearly so refined.A fish head, for example, cutThis morning from a halibut.'Hello! Good morning! How d'you do?How nice to meet you! How are you?'And then a little further downA mass of others gather round:A bacon rind, some rancid lard,A loaf of bread gone stale and hard,A steak that nobody could chew,An oyster from an oyster stew,Some liverwurst so old and grayOne smelled it from a mile away,A rotten nut, a reeky pear,A thing the cat left on the stair,And lots of other things as well,Each with a rather horrid smell.These are Veruca's new found friendsThat she will meet as she descends,And this is the price she has to payFor going so very far astray.But now, my dears, we think you mightBe wondering–is it really rightThat every single bit of blameAnd all the scolding and the shameShould fall upon Veruca Salt?Is she the only one at fault?For though she's spoiled, and dreadfully so,A girl can't spoil herself, you know.Who spoiled her, then? Ah, who indeed?Who pandered to her every need?Who turned her into such a brat?Who are the culprits? Who did that?Alas! You needen't look so farTo find out who these sinners are.They are (and this is very sad)Her loving parents, MUM and DAD.And that is why we're glad they fellInto the garbage chute as well.' #BlakeA Cradle Song Sweet dreams form a shade,O'er my lovely infants head.Sweet dreams of pleasant streams,By happy silent moony beams Sweet sleep with soft down.Weave thy brows an infant crown.Sweet sleep Angel mild,Hover o'er my happy child. Sweet smiles in the night,Hover over my delight.Sweet smiles Mothers smiles,All the livelong night beguiles. Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,Chase not slumber from thy eyes,Sweet moans, sweeter smiles,All the dovelike moans beguiles. Sleep sleep happy child,All creation slept and smil'd.Sleep sleep, happy sleep.While o'er thee thy mother weep Sweet babe in thy face,Holy image I can trace.Sweet babe once like thee.Thy maker lay and wept for me Wept for me for thee for all,When he was an infant small.Thou his image ever see.Heavenly face that smiles on thee, Smiles on thee on me on all,Who became an infant small,Infant smiles are His own smiles,Heaven &amp; earth to peace beguiles. A Divine Image Cruelty has a human heart,  And Jealousy a human face;Terror the human form divine,  And Secresy the human dress. The human dress is forged iron,  The human form a fiery forge,The human face a furnace sealed,  The human heart its hungry gorge. A Dream Once a dream did weave a shadeO'er my angel-guarded bed,That an emmet lost its wayWhere on grass methought I lay. Troubled, wildered, and forlorn,Dark, benighted, travel-worn,Over many a tangle spray,All heart-broke, I heard her say: 'Oh my children! do they cry,Do they hear their father sigh?Now they look abroad to see,Now return and weep for me.' Pitying, I dropped a tear:But I saw a glow-worm near,Who replied, 'What wailing wightCalls the watchman of the night? 'I am set to light the ground,While the beetle goes his round:Follow now the beetle's hum;Little wanderer, hie thee home! ' A Little Boy Lost Nought loves another as itself,  Nor venerates another so,Nor is it possible to thought  A greater than itself to know. 'And, father, how can I love you  Or any of my brothers more?I love you like the little bird  That picks up crumbs around the door.' The Priest sat by and heard the child;  In trembling zeal he seized his hair,He led him by his little coat,  And all admired the priestly care. And standing on the altar high,  'Lo, what a fiend is here! said he:'One who sets reason up for judge  Of our most holy mystery.' The weeping child could not be heard,  The weeping parents wept in vain:They stripped him to his little shirt,  And bound him in an iron chain, And burned him in a holy place  Where many had been burned before;The weeping parents wept in vain.  Are such thing done on Albion's shore? A Little Girl Lost Children of the future age,Reading this indignant page,Know that in a former timeLove, sweet love, was thought a crime. In the age of gold,Free from winter's cold,Youth and maiden bright,To the holy light,Naked in the sunny beams delight. Once a youthful pair,Filled with softest care,Met in garden brightWhere the holy lightHad just removed the curtains of the night. Then, in rising day,On the grass they play;Parents were afar,Strangers came not near,And the maiden soon forgot her fear. Tired with kisses sweet,They agree to meetWhen the silent sleepWaves o'er heaven's deep,And the weary tired wanderers weep. To her father whiteCame the maiden bright;But his loving look,Like the holy bookAll her tender limbs with terror shook. 'Ona, pale and weak,To thy father speak!Oh the trembling fear!Oh the dismal careThat shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair!' A Poison Tree I was angry with my friend:I told my wrath, my wrath did end.I was angry with my foe:I told it not, my wrath did grow. And I watered it in fears,Night and morning with my tears;And I sunned it with smiles,And with soft deceitful wiles. And it grew both day and night,Till it bore an apple bright.And my foe beheld it shine.And he knew that it was mine, And into my garden stoleWhen the night had veiled the pole;In the morning glad I seeMy foe outstretched beneath the tree. A QUESTION ANSWERED What is it men in women do require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire.What is it women do in men require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire. A Song Sweet dreams, form a shadeO'er my lovely infant's head!Sweet dreams of pleasant streamsBy happy, silent, moony beams! Sweet Sleep, with soft downWeave thy brows an infant crownSweet Sleep, angel mild,Hover o'er my happy child! Sweet smiles, in the nightHover over my delight!Sweet smiles, mother's smile,All the livelong night beguile. Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,Chase not slumber from thine eyes!Sweet moan, sweeter smile,All the dovelike moans beguile. Sleep, sleep, happy child!All creation slept and smiled.Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,While o'er thee doth mother weep. Sweet babe, in thy faceHoly image I can trace;Sweet babe, once like theeThy Maker lay, and wept for me: Wept for me, for thee, for all,When He was an infant small.Thou His image ever see,Heavenly face that smiles on thee! Smiles on thee, on me, on all,Who became an infant small;Infant smiles are his own smiles;Heaven and earth to peace beguiles. A War Song To Englishmen Prepare, prepare the iron helm of war,Bring forth the lots, cast in the spacious orb;Th' Angel of Fate turns them with mighty hands,And casts them out upon the darken'd earth!Prepare, prepare! Prepare your hearts for Death's cold hand! prepareYour souls for flight, your bodies for the earth;Prepare your arms for glorious victory;Prepare your eyes to meet a holy God!Prepare, prepare! Whose fatal scroll is that? Methinks 'tis mine!Why sinks my heart, why faltereth my tongue?Had I three lives, I'd die in such a cause,And rise, with ghosts, over the well-fought field.Prepare, prepare! The arrows of Almighty God are drawn!Angels of Death stand in the louring heavens!Thousands of souls must seek the realms of light,And walk together on the clouds of heaven!Prepare, prepare! Soldiers, prepare! Our cause is Heaven's cause;Soldiers, prepare! Be worthy of our cause:Prepare to meet our fathers in the sky:Prepare, O troops, that are to fall to-day!Prepare, prepare! Alfred shall smile, and make his harp rejoice;The Norman William, and the learnèd Clerk,And Lion Heart, and black-brow'd Edward, withHis loyal queen, shall rise, and welcome us!Prepare, prepare! Ah Sunflower Ah Sunflower, weary of time,  Who countest the steps of the sun;Seeking after that sweet golden clime  Where the traveller's journey is done; Where the Youth pined away with desire,  And the pale virgin shrouded in snow,Arise from their graves, and aspire  Where my Sunflower wishes to go! And Did Those Feet In Ancient Time And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded hereAmong these dark satanic mills? Bring me my bow of burning gold!Bring me my arrows of desire!Bring me my spear! O clouds, unfold!Bring me my chariot of fire! I will not cease from mental fight,Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,Till we have built JerusalemIn England's green and pleasant land. Cradle Song Sleep, sleep, beauty bright,Dreaming in the joys of night;Sleep, sleep; in thy sleepLittle sorrows sit and weep. Sweet babe, in thy faceSoft desires I can trace,Secret joys and secret smiles,Little pretty infant wiles. As thy softest limbs I feelSmiles as of the morning stealO'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breastWhere thy little heart doth rest. O the cunning wiles that creepIn thy little heart asleep!When thy little heart doth wake,Then the dreadful night shall break. Eternity He who binds to himself a joyDoes the winged life destroy;But he who kisses the joy as it fliesLives in eternity's sun rise. From Milton: And Did Those Feet And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded here,Among these dark Satanic Mills? Bring me my Bow of burning gold:Bring me my Arrows of desire:Bring me my Spear:O clouds unfold!Bring me my Chariot of fire! I will not cease from Mental Fight,Nor shall my Sword sleep in my hand,Till we have built JerusalemIn England's green &amp; pleasant Land.  Hear The Voice HEAR the voice of the Bard,Who present, past, and future, sees;Whose ears have heardThe Holy WordThat walk'd among the ancient trees; Calling the lapsed soul,And weeping in the evening dew;That might controlThe starry pole,And fallen, fallen light renew! 'O Earth, O Earth, return!Arise from out the dewy grass!Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumbrous mass. 'Turn away no more;Why wilt thou turn away?The starry floor,The watery shore,Is given thee till the break of day.' Hear The Voice Of The Bard Hear the voice of the Bard !Who present, past, and future sees;Whose ears have heardThe Holy Word,That walked among the ancient trees, Calling the lapsed soul,And weeping in the evening dew;That might controlThe starry pole,And fallen, fallen, light renew! 'O Earth, O Earth, return!Arise from out the dewy grass;Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumberous mass. 'Turn away no more;Why wilt thou turn away?The starry floor,The watery shore,Is given thee till the break of day.' Holy Thursday (Experience) Is this a holy thing to see.In a rich and fruitful land.Babes reduced to misery.Fed with cold and usurous hand? Is that trembling cry a song?Can it be a song of joy?And so many children poor?It is a land of poverty! And their sun does never shine.And their fields are bleak &amp; bare.And their ways are fill'd with thornsIt is eternal winter there. For where-e'er the sun does shine.And where-e'er the rain does fall:Babe can never hunger there,Nor poverty the mind appall. Holy Thursday (Innocence) Twas on a Holy Thursday their innocent faces cleanThe children walking two &amp; two in red &amp; blue &amp; greenGrey headed beadles walked before with wands as white as snowTill into the high dome of Pauls they like Thames waters flow O what a multitude they seemed these flowers of London townSeated in companies they sit with radiance all their ownThe hum of multitudes was there but multitudes of lambsThousands of little boys &amp; girls raising their innocent hands Now like a mighty wind they raise to heaven the voice of songOr like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven amongBeneath them sit the aged men wise guardians of the poorThen cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door How Sweet I Roam'D How sweet I roam'd from field to field,And tasted all the summer's pride'Til the prince of love beheldWho in the sunny beams did glide! He shew'd me lilies for my hairAnd blushing roses for my brow;He led me through his garden fair,Where all his golden pleasures grow. With sweet May dews my wings were wet,And Phoebus fir'd my vocal rageHe caught me in his silken net,And shut me in his golden cage. He loves to sit and hear me sing,Then, laughing, sports and plays with me;Then stretches out my golden wing,And mocks my loss of liberty. I Heard An Angel      I heard an Angel singing    When the day was springing,    'Mercy, Pity, Peace    Is the world's release.'     Thus he sung all day    Over the new mown hay,    Till the sun went down    And haycocks looked brown.     I heard a Devil curse  Over the heath and the furze,  'Mercy could be no more,  If there was nobody poor,   And pity no more could be,  If all were as happy as we.'  At his curse the sun went down,  And the heavens gave a frown.   Down pour'd the heavy rain  Over the new reap'd grain ...  And Miseries' increase  Is Mercy, Pity, Peace. I Saw A Chapel      I saw a chapel all of gold    That none did dare to enter in,    And many weeping stood without,    Weeping, mourning, worshipping.     I saw a serpent rise between    The white pillars of the door,    And he forc'd and forc'd and forc'd,    Down the golden hinges tore.     And along the pavement sweet,  Set with pearls and rubies bright,  All his slimy length he drew  Till upon the altar white   Vomiting his poison out  On the bread and on the wine.  So I turn'd into a sty  And laid me down among the swine. I See The Four-Fold Man I see the Four-fold Man, The Humanity in deadly sleep  And its fallen Emanation, the Spectre and its cruel Shadow.  I see the Past, Present and Future existing all at once  Before me. O Divine Spirit, sustain me on thy wings,  That I may awake Albion from his long and cold repose;  For Bacon and Newton, sheath'd in dismal steel, their terrors hang  Like iron scourges over Albion: reasonings like vast serpents  Infold around my limbs, bruising my minute articulations.   I turn my eyes to the schools and universities of Europe And there behold the Loom of Locke, whose Woof rages dire, Wash'd by the Water-wheels of Newton: black the cloth In heavy wreaths folds over every nation: cruel works Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic Moving by compulsion each other, not as those in Eden, which, Wheel within wheel, in freedom revolve in harmony and peace. If It Is True What The Prophets Write If it is true, what the Prophets write,That the heathen gods are all stocks and stones,Shall we, for the sake of being polite,Feed them with the juice of our marrow-bones? And if Bezaleel and Aholiab drewWhat the finger of God pointed to their view,Shall we suffer the Roman and Grecian rodsTo compel us to worship them as gods? They stole them from the temple of the LordAnd worshipp'd them that they might make inspirèd art abhorr'd; The wood and stone were call'd the holy things,And their sublime intent given to their kings.All the atonements of Jehovah spurn'd,And criminals to sacrifices turn'd. Infant Joy 'I have no name;I am but two days old.'What shall I call thee?'I happy am,Joy is my name.'Sweet joy befall thee! Pretty joy!Sweet joy, but two days old.Sweet Joy I call thee:Thou dost smile,I sing the while;Sweet joy befall thee! Infant Sorrow My mother groaned, my father wept,Into the dangerous world I leapt;Helpless, naked, piping loud,Like a fiend hid in a cloud. Struggling in my father's hands,Striving against my swaddling bands,Bound and weary, I thought bestTo sulk upon my mother's breast. Introduction To The Songs Of Innocence Piping down the valleys wild,  Piping songs of pleasant glee,On a cloud I saw a child,  And he laughing said to me: 'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'  So I piped with merry cheer.'Piper, pipe that song again;'  So I piped: he wept to hear. 'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;  Sing thy songs of happy cheer:!'So I sang the same again,  While he wept with joy to hear. 'Piper, sit thee down and write  In a book, that all may read.'So he vanish'd from my sight;  And I pluck'd a hollow reed, And I made a rural pen,  And I stain'd the water clear,And I wrote my happy songs  Every child may joy to hear. Jerusalem And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded hereAmong these dark Satanic mills? Bring me my bow of burning gold:Bring me my arrows of desire:Bring me my spear: O clouds unfold!Bring me my chariot of fire. I will not cease from mental fight,Nor shall my sword sleep in my handTill we have built JerusalemIn England's green and pleasant land. Jerusalem: England! Awake! Awake! Awake!      England! awake! awake! awake!        Jerusalem thy Sister calls!    Why wilt thou sleep the sleep of death        And close her from thy ancient walls?     Thy hills and valleys felt her feet        Gently upon their bosoms move:    Thy gates beheld sweet Zion's ways:        Then was a time of joy and love.     And now the time returns again:      Our souls exult, and London's towers  Receive the Lamb of God to dwell      In England's green and pleasant bowers. Jerusalem: I See The Four-Fold Man, The Humanity InDeadly Sleep      I see the Four-fold Man, The Humanity in deadly sleep    And its fallen Emanation, the Spectre and its cruel Shadow.    I see the Past, Present and Future existing all at once    Before me. O Divine Spirit, sustain me on thy wings,    That I may awake Albion from his long and cold repose;    For Bacon and Newton, sheath'd in dismal steel, their terrors hang    Like iron scourges over Albion: reasonings like vast serpents    Infold around my limbs, bruising my minute articulations.     I turn my eyes to the schools and universities of Europe  And there behold the Loom of Locke, whose Woof rages dire,  Wash'd by the Water-wheels of Newton: black the cloth  In heavy wreaths folds over every nation: cruel works  Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic  Moving by compulsion each other, not as those in Eden, which,  Wheel within wheel, in freedom revolve in harmony and peace. Laughing Song When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy,And the dimpling stream runs laughing by;When the air does laugh with our merry wit,And the green hill laughs with the noise of it; when the meadows laugh with lively green,And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene,When Mary and Susan and EmilyWith their sweet round mouths sing 'Ha, ha he!' When the painted birds laugh in the shade,Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:Come live, and be merry, and join with me,To sing the sweet chorus of 'Ha, ha, he!' London I wandered through each chartered street,  Near where the chartered Thames does flow,A mark in every face I meet,  Marks of weakness, marks of woe. In every cry of every man,  In every infant's cry of fear,In every voice, in every ban,  The mind-forged manacles I hear: How the chimney-sweeper's cry  Every blackening church appals,And the hapless soldier's sigh  Runs in blood down palace-walls. But most, through midnight streets I hear  How the youthful harlot's curseBlasts the new-born infant's tear,  And blights with plagues the marriage-hearse. Love And Harmony Love and harmony combine,And round our souls entwineWhile thy branches mix with mine,And our roots together join. Joys upon our branches sit,Chirping loud and singing sweet;Like gentle streams beneath our feetInnocence and virtue meet. Thou the golden fruit dost bear,I am clad in flowers fair;Thy sweet boughs perfume the air,And the turtle buildeth there. There she sits and feeds her young,Sweet I hear her mournful song;And thy lovely leaves among,There is love, I hear his tongue. There his charming nest doth lay,There he sleeps the night away;There he sports along the day,And doth among our branches play. Love's Secret Never seek to tell thy love, Love that never told can be;For the gentle wind does moveSilently, invisibly. I told my love, I told my love,I told her all my heart;Trembling, cold, in ghastly fears,Ah! she did depart! Soon as she was gone from me,A traveler came by,Silently, invisiblyHe took her with a sigh. Mad Song The wild winds weep   And the night is a-cold;Come hither, Sleep,   And my griefs infold:But lo! the morning peeps   Over the eastern steeps,And the rustling birds of dawnThe earth do scorn. Lo! to the vault   Of paved heaven,With sorrow fraught   My notes are driven:They strike the ear of night,   Make weep the eyes of day;They make mad the roaring winds,   And with tempests play. Like a fiend in a cloud,   With howling woe,After night I do crowd,   And with night will go;I turn my back to the east,From whence comforts have increas'd;For light doth seize my brainWith frantic pain. Milton: And Did Those Feet In Ancient Time      And did those feet in ancient time    Walk upon England's mountains green?    And was the holy Lamb of God    On England's pleasant pastures seen?     And did the Countenance Divine    Shine forth upon our clouded hills?    And was Jerusalem builded here    Among these dark Satanic mills?     Bring me my bow of burning gold:  Bring me my arrows of desire:  Bring me my spear: O clouds unfold!  Bring me my chariot of fire.   I will not cease from mental fight,  Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand  Till we have built Jerusalem  In England's green and pleasant land. Mock On, Mock On, Voltaire, Rousseau Mock on, mock on, Voltaire, Rousseau;Mock on, mock on; 'tis all in vain!You throw the sand against the wind,And the wind blows it back again.And every sand becomes a gemReflected in the beams divine;Blown back they blind the mocking eye,But still in Israel's paths they shine. The Atoms of DemocritusAnd Newton's Particles of LightAre sands upon the Red Sea shore,Where Israel's tents do shine so bright. My Pretty Rose Tree A flower was offered to me,  Such a flower as May never bore;But I said 'I've a pretty rose tree,'  And I passed the sweet flower o'er. Then I went to my pretty rose tree,  To tend her by day and by night;But my rose turned away with jealousy,  And her thorns were my only delight. Never Seek To Tell Thy Love      Never seek to tell thy love    Love that never told can be;    For the gentle wind does move    Silently, invisibly.     I told my love, I told my love,    I told her all my heart,    Trembling, cold, in ghastly fears--    Ah, she doth depart.     Soon as she was gone from me  A traveller came by  Silently, invisibly--  O, was no deny. Night The sun descending in the west,The evening star does shine;The birds are silent in their nest,And I must seek for mine.    The moon, like a flower,    In heaven's high bower,    With silent delight    Sits and smiles on the night. Farewell, green fields and happy groves,Where flocks have took delight.Where lambs have nibbled, silent movesThe feet of angels bright;    Unseen they pour blessing,    And joy without ceasing,    On each bud and blossom,    And each sleeping bosom. They look in every thoughtless nest,Where birds are covered warm;They visit caves of every beast,To keep them all from harm.    If they see any weeping    That should have been sleeping,    They pour sleep on their head,    And sit down by their bed. When wolves and tigers howl for prey,They pitying stand and weep;Seeking to drive their thirst away,And keep them from the sheep.    But if they rush dreadful,    The angels, most heedful,    Receive each mild spirit,    New worlds to inherit. And there the lion's ruddy eyesShall flow with tears of gold,And pitying the tender cries,And walking round the fold,    Saying, 'Wrath, by His meekness,    And, by His health, sickness    Is driven away    From our immortal day. 'And now beside thee, bleating lamb,I can lie down and sleep;Or think on Him who bore thy name,Graze after thee and weep.    For, washed in life's river,    My bright mane for ever    Shall shine like the gold    As I guard o'er the fold.' Now Art Has Lost Its Mental Charms `Now Art has lost its mental charmsFrance shall subdue the world in arms.'So spoke an Angel at my birth;Then said `Descend thou upon earth,Renew the Arts on Britain's shore,And France shall fall down and adore.With works of art their armies meetAnd War shall sink beneath thy feet.But if thy nation Arts refuse,And if they scorn the immortal Muse,France shall the arts of peace restoreAnd save thee from the ungrateful shore.' Spirit who lov'st Britannia's IsleRound which the fiends of commerce smile -- Nurse's Song (Innocence) When voices of children are heard on the greenAnd laughing is heard on the hill,My heart is at rest within my breastAnd everything else is still Then come home my children the sun is gone downAnd the dews of night ariseCome come leave off play, and let us awayTill the morning appears in the skies No no let us play, for it is yet dayAnd we cannot go to sleepBesides in the sky, the little birds flyAnd the hills are all covered with sheep Well well go &amp; play till the light fades awayAnd then go home to bedThe little ones leaped &amp; shouted &amp; laugh'dAnd all the hills echoed On Another's Sorrow Can I see another's woe,And not be in sorrow too?Can I see another's grief,And not seek for kind relief? Can I see a falling tear,And not feel my sorrow's share?Can a father see his childWeep, nor be with sorrow filled? Can a mother sit and hearAn infant groan, an infant fear?No, no!  never can it be!Never, never can it be! And can He who smiles on allHear the wren with sorrows small,Hear the small bird's grief and care,Hear the woes that infants bear -- And not sit beside the next,Pouring pity in their breast,And not sit the cradle near,Weeping tear on infant's tear? And not sit both night and day,Wiping all our tears away?Oh no! never can it be!Never, never can it be! He doth give his joy to all:He becomes an infant small,He becomes a man of woe,He doth feel the sorrow too. Think not thou canst sigh a sigh,And thy Maker is not by:Think not thou canst weep a tear,And thy Maker is not year. Oh He gives to us his joy,That our grief He may destroy:Till our grief is fled an goneHe doth sit by us and moan. Reeds Of Innocence Piping down the valleys wild,Piping songs of pleasant glee,On a cloud I saw a child,And he laughing said to me: 'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'So I piped with merry cheer.'Piper, pipe that song again;'So I piped: he wept to hear. 'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;Sing thy songs of happy cheer!'So I sung the same again,While he wept with joy to hear. 'Piper, sit thee down and writeIn a book that all may read.'So he vanish'd from my sight;And I pluck'd a hollow reed, And I made a rural pen,And I stain'd the water clear,And I wrote my happy songsEvery child may joy to hear. Several Questions Answered What is it men in women do require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire.What is it women do in men require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire. The look of love alarmsBecause 'tis fill'd with fire;But the look of soft deceitShall Win the lover's hire. Soft Deceit &amp; Idleness,These are Beauty's sweetest dress. He who binds to himself a joyDot the winged life destroy;But he who kisses the joy as it fliesLives in Eternity's sunrise.  Submitted by Josh Horn Silent, Silent Night Silent, silent night,Quench the holy lightOf thy torches bright; For possessed of DayThousand spirits strayThat sweet joys betray. Why should joys be sweetUsed with deceit,Nor with sorrows meet? But an honest joyDoes itself destroyFor a harlot coy. Sleep! Sleep! Beauty Bright Sleep! sleep! beauty bright,Dreaming o'er the joys of night;Sleep! sleep! in thy sleepLittle sorrows sit and weep. Sweet Babe, in thy faceSoft desires I can trace,Secret joys and secret smiles,Little pretty infant wiles. As thy softest limbs I feel,Smiles as of the morning stealO'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breastWhere thy little heart does rest. O! the cunning wiles that creepIn thy little heart asleep.When thy little heart does wakeThen the dreadful lightnings break, From thy cheek and from thy eye,O'er the youthful harvests nigh.Infant wiles and infant smilesHeaven and Earth of peace beguiles. Song My silks and fine array,My smiles and languish'd air,By love are driv'n away;And mournful lean DespairBrings me yew to deck my grave;Such end true lovers have. His face is fair as heav'nWhen springing buds unfold;O why to him was't giv'nWhose heart is wintry cold?His breast is love's all-worshipp'd tomb,Where all love's pilgrims come. Bring me an axe and spade,Bring me a winding sheet;When I my grave have madeLet winds and tempests beat:Then down I'll lie as cold as clay.True love doth pass away! Song: Memory, Hither Come Memory, hither come,      And tune your merry notes;  And, while upon the wind      Your music floats,   I'll pore upon the stream      Where sighing lovers dream,  And fish for fancies as they pass      Within the watery glass.   I'll drink of the clear stream,     And hear the linnet's song; And there I'll lie and dream     The day along:  And, when night comes, I'll go     To places fit for woe, Walking along the darken'd valley     With silent Melancholy. Songs Of Experience: Introduction Hear the voice of the Bard!Who Present, Past, &amp; Future seesWhose ears have heardThe Holy Word,That walk'd among the ancient trees. Calling the lapsed SoulAnd weeping in the evening dew;That might controll.The starry pole;And fallen fallen light renew! O Earth O Earth return!Arise from out the dewy grass;Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumbrous mass. Turn away no more:Why wilt thou turn awayThe starry floorThe watery shoreIs given thee till the break of day. Songs Of Innocence: Introduction Piping down the valleys wildPiping songs of pleasant gleeOn a cloud I saw a child.And he laughing said to me. Pipe a song about a Lamb:So I piped with merry chear,Piper, pipe that song again--So I piped, he wept to hear. Drop thy pipe thy happy pipeSing thy songs of happy chear,So I sung the same againWhile he wept with joy to hear Piper sit thee down and writeIn a book that all may read--So he vanished from my sightAnd I pluck'd a hollow reed. And I made a rural pen,And I stained the water clear,And I wrote my happy songs,Every child may joy to hear. Spring Sound the flute!     Now it's mute!     Bird's delight,     Day and night,     Nightingale,     In the dale,     Lark in sky,--     Merrily,Merrily merrily, to welcome in the year.      Little boy,     Full of joy;     Little girl,     Sweet and small;     Cock does crow,     So do you;     Merry voice,     Infant noise;Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year.      Little lamb,     Here I am;     Come and lick     My white neck;     Let me pull     Your soft wool;     Let me kiss     Your soft face;Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year. The Angel I dreamt a dream!  What can it mean?And that I was a maiden QueenGuarded by an Angel mild:Witless woe was ne'er beguiled! And I wept both night and day,And he wiped my tears away;And I wept both day and night,And hid from him my heart's delight. So he took his wings, and fled;Then the morn blushed rosy red.I dried my tears, and armed my fearsWith ten-thousand shields and spears. Soon my Angel came again;I was armed, he came in vain;For the time of youth was fled,And grey hairs were on my head. The Angel That Presided O'Er My Birth The Angel that presided o'er my birthSaid, 'Little creature, form'd of Joy and Mirth,'Go love without the help of any Thing on Earth.' The Birds He. Where thou dwellest, in what grove,Tell me Fair One, tell me Love;Where thou thy charming nest dost build,O thou pride of every field!She. Yonder stands a lonely tree,There I live and mourn for thee;Morning drinks my silent tear,And evening winds my sorrow bear. He. O thou summer's harmony,I have liv'd and mourn'd for thee;Each day I mourn along the wood,And night hath heard my sorrows loud. She. Dost thou truly long for me?And am I thus sweet to thee?Sorrow now is at an end,O my Lover and my Friend! He. Come, on wings of joy we'll flyTo where my bower hangs on high;Come, and make thy calm retreatAmong green leaves and blossoms sweet. The Blossom Merry, merry sparrow!Under leaves so greenA happy blossomSees you, swift as arrow,Seek your cradle narrow,Near my bosom.Pretty, pretty robin!Under leaves so greenA happy blossomHears you sobbing, sobbing,Pretty, pretty robin,Near my bosom. The Chimney Sweeper: A Little Black Thing AmongThe Snow A little black thing among the snow,Crying 'weep! 'weep!' in notes of woe!'Where are thy father and mother? say?''They are both gone up to the church to pray. Because I was happy upon the heath,And smil'd among the winter's snow,They clothed me in the clothes of death,And taught me to sing the notes of woe. And because I am happy and dance and sing,They think they have done me no injury,And are gone to praise God and his Priest and King,Who make up a heaven of our misery.' The Chimney-Sweeper: When My Mother Died I WasVery Young When my mother died I was very young,And my father sold me while yet my tongueCould scarcely cry 'Weep! weep! weep! weep!'So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep. There's little Tom Dacre, who cried when his head,That curled like a lamb's back, was shaved; so I said,'Hush, Tom! never mind it, for, when your head's bare,You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.' And so he was quiet, and that very night,As Tom was a-sleeping, he had such a sight! --That thousands of sweepers, Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack,Were all of them locked up in coffins of black. And by came an angel, who had a bright key,And he opened the coffins, and let them all free;Then down a green plain, leaping, laughing, they run,And wash in a river, and shine in the sun. Then naked and white, all their bags left behind,They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind;And the Angel told Tom, if he'd be a good boy,He'd have God for his father, and never want joy. And so Tom awoke, and we rose in the dark,And got with our bags and our brushes to work.Though the morning was cold, Tom was happy and warm:So, if all do their duty, they need not fear harm. The Clod And The Pebble 'Love seeketh not itself to please,  Nor for itself hath any care, But for another gives its ease,And builds a heaven in hell's despair.' So sung a little clod of clay,Trodden with the cattle's feet;But a pebble of the brookWarbled out these meters meet: 'Love seeketh only Self to please,To bind another to its delight,Joys in another's loss of ease,And builds a hell in heaven's despite.' The Crystal Cabinet The Maiden caught me in the wild,Where I was dancing merrily;She put me into her Cabinet,And lock'd me up with a golden key. This cabinet is form'd of goldAnd pearl and crystal shining bright,And within it opens into a worldAnd a little lovely moony night. Another England there I sawAnother London with its Tower,Another Thames and other hills,And another pleasant Surrey bower. Another Maiden like herself,Translucent, lovely, shining clear,Threefold each in the other clos'dO, what a pleasant trembling fear! O, what a smile! a threefold smileFill'd me, that like a flame I burn'd;I bent to kiss the lovely Maid,And found a threefold kiss return'd. I strove to seize the inmost formWith ardor fierce and hands of flame,But burst the Crystal Cabinet,And like a weeping Babe became-- A weeping Babe upon the wild,And weeping Woman pale reclin'd,And in the outward air again,I fill'd with woes the passing wind. The Echoing Green The sun does arise,And make happy the skies;The merry bells ringTo welcome the spring;The skylark and thrush,The birds of the bush,Sing louder aroundTo the bell's cheerful sound,While our sports shall be seenOn the Echoing Green. Old John with white hair,Does laugh away care,Sitting under the oak,Among the old folk.They laugh at our play,And soon they all say:'Such, such were the joysWhen we all, girls and boys,In our youth time were seenOn the Echoing Green.' Till the little ones, weary,No more can be merry;The sun does descend,And our sports have an end.Round the laps of their mothersMany sisters and brother,Like birds in their nest,Are ready for rest,And sport no more seenOn the darkening Green.The Fairy ‘COME hither, my Sparrows,	My little arrows.	If a tear or a smile	Will a man beguile,	If an amorous delay	Clouds a sunshiny day,	If the step of a foot	Smites the heart to its root,	'Tis the marriage-ring…	Makes each fairy a king.'	   So a Fairy sung.	From the leaves I sprung;	He leap'd from the spray	To flee away;	But in my hat caught,	     He soon shall be taught.	Let him laugh, let him cry,	He's my Butterfly;	For I've pull'd out the sting	Of the marriage-ring. The Fly Little Fly,Thy summer's playMy thoughtless handHas brushed away. Am not IA fly like thee?Or art not thouA man like me? For I danceAnd drink, and sing,Till some blind handShall brush my wing. If thought is lifeAnd strength and breathAnd the wantOf thought is death; Then am IA happy fly,If I live,Or if I die. The Garden Of Love I went to the Garden of Love,  And saw what I never had seen;A Chapel was built in the midst,  Where I used to play on the green. And the gates of this Chapel were shut  And 'Thou shalt not,' writ over the door;So I turned to the Garden of Love  That so many sweet flowers bore. And I saw it was filled with graves,  And tombstones where flowers should be;And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds,  And binding with briars my joys and desires. The Grey Monk      'I die, I die!' the Mother said,     'My children die for lack of bread.     What more has the merciless Tyrant said?'     The Monk sat down on the stony bed.      The blood red ran from the Grey Monk's side,     His hands and feet were wounded wide,     His body bent, his arms and knees     Like to the roots of ancient trees.      His eye was dry; no tear could flow:   A hollow groan first spoke his woe.   He trembled and shudder'd upon the bed;   At length with a feeble cry he said:    'When God commanded this hand to write   In the studious hours of deep midnight,   He told me the writing I wrote should prove   The bane of all that on Earth I lov'd.    My Brother starv'd between two walls,   His Children's cry my soul appalls;   I mock'd at the rack and griding chain,   My bent body mocks their torturing pain.    Thy father drew his sword in the North,   With his thousands strong he marched forth;   Thy Brother has arm'd himself in steel   To avenge the wrongs thy Children feel.    But vain the Sword and vain the Bow,   They never can work War's overthrow.   The Hermit's prayer and the Widow's tear   Alone can free the World from fear.    For a Tear is an intellectual thing,   And a Sigh is the sword of an Angel King,   And the bitter groan of the Martyr's woe   Is an arrow from the Almighty's bow.    The hand of Vengeance found the bed   To which the Purple Tyrant fled;   The iron hand crush'd the Tyrant's head   And became a Tyrant in his stead.' The Human Abstract Pity would be no moreIf we did not make somebody Poor;And Mercy no more could beIf all were as happy as we. And mutual fear brings peace,Till the selfish loves increase:Then Cruelty knits a snare,And spreads his baits with care. He sits down with holy fears,And waters the grounds with tears;Then Humility takes its rootUnderneath his foot. Soon spreads the dismal shadeOf Mystery over his head;And the Catterpiller and FlyFeed on the Mystery. And it bears the fruit of Deceit,Ruddy and sweet to eat;And the Raven his nest has madeIn its thickest shade. The Gods of the earth and seaSought thro' Nature to find this Tree;But their search was all in vain:There grows one in the Human Brain. The Lamb Little Lamb, who made thee?   Dost thou know who made thee?Gave thee life, and bid thee feed,By the stream and o'er the mead;Gave thee clothing of delight,Softest clothing, woolly, bright;Gave thee such a tender voice,Making all the vales rejoice?   Little Lamb, who made thee?   Dost thou know who made thee?    Little Lamb, I'll tell thee,   Little Lamb, I'll tell thee.He is called by thy name,For He calls Himself a Lamb.He is meek, and He is mild;He became a little child.I a child, and thou a lamb,We are called by His name.   Little Lamb, God bless thee!   Little Lamb, God bless thee! The Land Of Dreams Awake, awake, my little boy!Thou wast thy mother's only joy;Why dost thou weep in thy gentle sleep?Awake! thy father does thee keep. 'O, what land is the Land of Dreams?What are its mountains, and what are its streams?O father! I saw my mother there,Among the lilies by waters fair. 'Among the lambs, cloth? d in white,She walk'd with her Thomas in sweet delight.I wept for joy, like a dove I mourn;O! when shall I again return? ' Dear child, I also by pleasant streamsHave wander'd all night in the Land of Dreams;But tho' calm and warm the waters wide,I could not get to the other side. 'Father, O father! what do we hereIn this land of unbelief and fear?The Land of Dreams is better farAbove the light of the morning star.' The Lily The modest Rose puts forth a thorn,The humble sheep a threat'ning horn:While the Lily white shall in love delight,Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright. The Little Black Boy My mother bore me in the southern wild,  And I  am black, but oh my soul is white!White as an angel is the English child,  But I am black, as if bereaved of light. My mother taught me underneath a tree,  And, sitting down before the heat of day,She took me on her lap and kissed me,  And, pointed to the east, began to say: 'Look on the rising sun: there God does live,  And gives His light, and gives His heat away,And flowers and trees and beasts and men receive  Comfort in morning, joy in the noonday. 'And we are put on earth a little space,  That we may learn to bear the beams of loveAnd these black bodies and this sunburnt face  Is but a cloud, and like a shady grove. 'For when our souls have learn'd the heat to bear,  The cloud will vanish, we shall hear His voice,Saying, 'Come out from the grove, my love and care  And round my golden tent like lambs rejoice',' Thus did my mother say, and kissed me;And thus I say to little English boy.When I from black and he from white cloud free,And round the tent of God like lambs we joy I'll shade him from the heat till he can bearTo lean in joy upon our Father's knee;And then I'll stand and stroke his silver hair,And be like him, and he will then love me. The Little Boy Found The little boy lost in the lonely fen,  Led by the wandering light,Began to cry, but God, ever nigh,  Appeared like his father, in white. He kissed the child, and by the hand led,  And to his mother brought,Who in sorrow pale, through the lonely dale,  The little boy weeping sought. The Little Boy Lost 'Father, father, where are you going?  Oh do not walk so fast!Speak, father, speak to you little boy,  Or else I shall be lost.' The night was dark, no father was there,  The child was wet with dew;The mire was deep, and the child did weep,  And away the vapour flew. The Little Girl Found All the night in woe,Lyca's parents go:Over vallies deep.While the desarts weep. Tired and woe-begone.Hoarse with making moan:Arm in arm seven days.They trac'd the desert ways. Seven nights they sleep.Among shadows deep:And dream they see their childStarvdd in desart wild. Pale thro' pathless waysThe fancied image strays.Famish'd, weeping, weakWith hollow piteous shriek Rising from unrest,The trembling woman prest,With feet of weary woe;She could no further go. In his arms he bore.Her arm'd with sorrow sore:Till before their wayA couching lion lay. Turning back was vain,Soon his heavy mane.Bore them to the ground;Then he stalk'd around. Smelling to his prey,But their fears allay,When he licks their hands:And silent by them stands. They look upon his eyesFill'd with deep surprise:And wondering behold.A spirit arm'd in gold. On his head a crownOn his shoulders down,Flow'd his golden hair.Gone was all their care. Follow me he said,Weep not for the maid;In my palace deep.Lyca lies asleep. Then they followed,Where the vision led;And saw their sleeping child,Among tygers wild. To this day they dwellIn a lonely dellNor fear the wolvish howl,Nor the lion's growl. The Little Girl Lost In futurityI prophesy see.That the earth from sleep.(Grave the sentence deep) Shall arise and seekFor her maker meek:And the desart wildBecome a garden mild. In the southern clime,Where the summers primeNever fades away;Lovely Lyca lay. Seven summers oldLovely Lyca told,She had wandered long.Hearing wild birds song. Sweet sleep come to meUnderneath this tree;Do father, mother weep.--"Where can Lyca sleep". Lost in desert wildIs your little child.How can Lyca sleep.If her mother weep. If her heart does ake.Then let Lyca wake;If my mother sleep,Lyca shall not weep. Frowning, frowning night,O'er this desert bright.Let thy moon arise.While I close my eyes. Sleeping Lyca lay:While the beasts of prey,Come from caverns deep,View'd the maid asleep The kingly lion stoodAnd the virgin view'd:Then he gambolled roundO'er the hallowed ground: Leopards, tygers play,Round her as she lay;While the lion old,Bow'd his mane of gold, And her bosom lick,And upon her neck,From his eyes of flame,Ruby tears there came; While the lionessLoos'd her slender dress,And naked they convey'dTo caves the sleeping maid. The Little Vagabond Dear mother, dear mother, the church is cold,  But the ale-house is healthy and pleasant and warm;  Besides I can tell where I am used well,  Such usage in Heaven will never do well.     But if at the church they would give us some ale,  And a pleasant fire our souls to regale,  We'd sing and we'd pray all the live-long day,  Nor ever once wish from the church to stray.     Then the parson might preach, and drink, and sing,  And we'd be as happy as birds in the spring;  And modest Dame Lurch, who is always at church,  Would not have bandy children, nor fasting, nor birch.     And God, like a father rejoicing to see  His children as pleasant and happy as he,  Would have no more quarrel with the Devil or the barrel,  But kiss him, and give him both drink and apparel. The New Jerusalem And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded hereAmong these dark Satanic Mills? Bring me my bow of burning gold!Bring me my arrows of desire!Bring me my spear!  O clouds, unfold!Bring me my charriot of fire! I will not cease from mental fight,Nor shall my sword sleep in my handTill we have built JerusalemIn England's green and pleasant land. The Question Answered What is it men in women do require?The lineaments of gratified Desire.What is it women do in men require?The lineaments of gratified Desire The Rhine Was Red. The Rhine was red with humane blood,The Danube roll'd a purple tide,On the Euphrates Satan stoodAnd over Asia stretch'd his pride. He wither'd up sweet Zion's HillFrom every Nation of the Earth;He wither'd up Jerusalem's GatesAnd in a dark Land gave her birth. He wither'd up the Human FormBy laws of sacrifice for sin,Till it became a Mortal Worm,But O! translucent all within. Spectre of Albion! warlike Fiend!In clouds of blood and ruin roll'd,I here reclaim thee as my own,My Selfhood! Satan! arm'd in gold. Is this thy soft Family-Love,Thy cruel Patriarchal pride,Planting the Family alone,Destroying all the World beside? A man's worst enemies are thoseOf his own house and family;And he who makes his law a curse,By his own law shall surely die. In my Exchanges every Land,Shall walk, and mine in every Land,Mutual shall build Jerusalem,Both heart in heart and hand in hand. The Schoolboy I love to rise in a summer mornWhen the birds sing on every tree;The distant huntsman winds his horn,And the skylark sings with me.O! what sweet company! But to go to school on a summer morn,O! it drives all joy away;Under a cruel eye outworn,The little ones spend the dayIn sighing and dismay. Ah! then at times I drooping sit,And spend many an anxious hour,Nor in my book can I take delight,Nor sit in learning's bower,Worn thro' with the dreary shower. How can the bird that is born for joySit in a cage and sing?How can a child, when fears annoy,But droop his tender wing,And forget his youthful spring? O! father and mother, if buds are nippedAnd blossoms blown away,And if the tender plants are strippedOf their joy in the springing day,By sorrow and care's dismay, How shall the summer arise in joy,Or the summer's fruits appear?Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy,Or bless the mellowing year,When the blasts of winter appear? The Shepherd How sweet is the shepherd's sweet lot!From the morn to the evening he strays;He shall follow his sheep all the day,And his tongue shall be filled with praise. For he hears the lambs' innocent call,And he hears the ewes' tender reply;He is watchful while they are in peace,For they know when their shepherd is nigh. The Sick Rose O Rose, thou art sick!The invisible wormThat flies in the night,In the howling storm, Has found out thy bedOf crimson joy:And his dark secret loveDoes thy life destroy. The Smile There is a Smile of LoveAnd there is a Smile of DeceitAnd there is a Smile of SmilesIn which these two Smiles meet And there is a Frown of HateAnd there is a Frown of disdainAnd there is a Frown of FrownsWhich you strive to forget in vain For it sticks in the Hearts deep CoreAnd it sticks in the deep Back boneAnd no Smile that ever was smildBut only one Smile alone That betwixt the Cradle & GraveIt only once Smild can beBut when it once is SmildTheres an end to all Misery The Two Songs I heard an Angel SingingWhen the day was springing:"Mercy, pity, and peace,Are the world's release." So he sang all dayOver the new-mown hay,Till the sun went down,And the haycocks looked brown. I heard a devil curseOver the heath and the furse:"Mercy vould be no moreIf there were nobody poor,And pity no more could beIf all were happy as ye:And mutual fear brings peace,Misery's increaseAre mercy, pity, and peace." At his curse the sun went down,And the heavens gave a frown. The Tyger Tyger! Tyger! burning bright,In the forests of the night,What immortal hand or eyeCould frame thy fearful symmetry? In what distant deeps or skiesBurnt the fire of thine eyes?On what wings dare he aspire?What the hand dare sieze the fire? And what shoulder, & what art,Could twist the sinews of thy heart?And when thy heart began to beat,What dread hand? & what dread feet? What the hammer? what the chain?In what furnace was thy brain?What the anvil? what dread graspDare its deadly terrors clasp? When the stars threw down their spears,And water'd heaven with their tears,Did he smile his work to see?Did he who made the Lamb make thee? Tyger! Tyger! burning brightIn the forests of the night,What immortal hand or eyeDare frame thy fearful symmetry? The Voice Of The Ancient Bard Youth of delight, come hither,And see the opening morn,Image of truth new born.Doubt is fled, & clouds of reason,Dark disputes & artful teazing.Folly is an endless maze,Tangled roots perplex her ways.How many have fallen there!They stumble all night over bones of the dead,And feel they know not what but care,And wish to lead others, when they should be led. The Wild Flower's Song As I wandered the forest,The green leaves among,I heard a Wild FlowerSinging a song. 'I slept in the earthIn the silent night,I murmured my fearsAnd I felt delight. 'In the morning I wentAs rosy as morn,To seek for new joy;But oh! met with scorn.' Three Things To Remember A Robin Redbreast in a cage,Puts all Heaven in a rage. A skylark wounded on the wingDoth make a cherub cease to sing. He who shall hurt the little wrenShall never be beloved by men. To Autumn O Autumn, laden with fruit, and stainèdWith the blood of the grape, pass not, but sitBeneath my shady roof; there thou may'st rest,And tune thy jolly voice to my fresh pipe,And all the daughters of the year shall dance!Sing now the lusty song of fruits and flowers.`The narrow bud opens her beauties toThe sun, and love runs in her thrilling veins;Blossoms hang round the brows of Morning, andFlourish down the bright cheek of modest Eve,Till clust'ring Summer breaks forth into singing,And feather'd clouds strew flowers round her head. `The spirits of the air live on the smellsOf fruit; and Joy, with pinions light, roves roundThe gardens, or sits singing in the trees.'Thus sang the jolly Autumn as he sat;Then rose, girded himself, and o'er the bleakHills fled from our sight; but left his golden load. To Morning O holy virgin! clad in purest white,Unlock heav'n's golden gates, and issue forth;Awake the dawn that sleeps in heaven; let lightRise from the chambers of the east, and bringThe honey'd dew that cometh on waking day.O radiant morning, salute the sunRous'd like a huntsman to the chase, and withThy buskin'd feet appear upon our hills. To Nobodaddy Why art thou silent & invisibleFather of jealousyWhy dost thou hide thyself in cloudsFrom every searching Eye Why darkness & obscurityIn all thy words & lawsThat none dare eat the fruit but fromThe wily serpents jawsOr is it because Secresygains females loud applause To See To see a world in a grain of sand,And a heaven in a wild flower,Hold infinity in the palm of your handAnd eternity in an hour. To Spring O thou with dewy locks, who lookest downThro' the clear windows of the morning, turnThine angel eyes upon our western isle,Which in full choir hails thy approach, O Spring! The hills tell each other, and the listeningValleys hear; all our longing eyes are turnedUp to thy bright pavilions: issue forth,And let thy holy feet visit our clime. Come o'er the eastern hills, and let our windsKiss thy perfumed garments; let us tasteThy morn and evening breath; scatter thy pearlsUpon our love-sick land that mourns for thee. O deck her forth with thy fair fingers; pourThy soft kisses on her bosom; and putThy golden crown upon her languished head,Whose modest tresses were bound up for thee. To Summer O thou who passest thro' our valleys inThy strength, curb thy fierce steeds, allay the heatThat flames from their large nostrils! thou, O Summer,Oft pitched'st here thy goldent tent, and oftBeneath our oaks hast slept, while we beheldWith joy thy ruddy limbs and flourishing hair. Beneath our thickest shades we oft have heardThy voice, when noon upon his fervid carRode o'er the deep of heaven; beside our springsSit down, and in our mossy valleys, onSome bank beside a river clear, throw thySilk draperies off, and rush into the stream:Our valleys love the Summer in his pride. Our bards are fam'd who strike the silver wire:Our youth are bolder than the southern swains:Our maidens fairer in the sprightly dance:We lack not songs, nor instruments of joy,Nor echoes sweet, nor waters clear as heaven,Nor laurel wreaths against the sultry heat. To The Accuser Who Is The God Of This World Truly My Satan thou art but a DunceAnd dost not know the Garment from the ManEvery Harlot was a Virgin onceNor canst thou ever change Kate into Nan Tho thou art Worship'd by the Names DivineOf Jesus & Jehovah thou art stillThe Son of Morn in weary Nights declineThe lost Travellers Dream under the Hill To The Evening Star Thou fair-haired angel of the evening,Now, whilst the sun rests on the mountains, lightThy bright torch of love; thy radiant crownPut on, and smile upon our evening bed!Smile on our loves, and while thou drawest theBlue curtains of the sky, scatter thy silver dewOn every flower that shuts its sweet eyesIn timely sleep. Let thy west wing sleep onThe lake; speak silence with thy glimmering eyes,And wash the dusk with silver. Soon, full soon,Dost thou withdraw; then the wolf rages wide,And the lion glares through the dun forest.The fleeces of our flocks are covered withThy sacred dew; protect with them with thine influence. To The Muses      Whether on Ida's shady brow,        Or in the chambers of the East,    The chambers of the sun, that now        From ancient melody have ceas'd;     Whether in Heav'n ye wander fair,        Or the green corners of the earth,    Or the blue regions of the air,        Where the melodious winds have birth;     Whether on crystal rocks ye rove,      Beneath the bosom of the sea  Wand'ring in many a coral grove,      Fair Nine, forsaking Poetry!   How have you left the ancient love     That bards of old enjoy'd in you!  The languid strings do scarcely move!      The sound is forc'd, the notes are few! To Tirzah Whate'er is Born of Mortal BirthMust be consumed with the EarthTo rise from Generation free:Then what have I to do with thee? The Sexes sprung from Shame & Pride,Blow'd in the morn, in evening died;But Mercy chang'd Death into Sleep;The Sexes rose to work & weep. Thou, Mother of my Mortal part,With cruelty didst mould my Heart,And with false self-deceiving tearsDidst bind my Nostrils, Eyes, & Ears: Didst close my Tongue in senseless clay,And me to Mortal Life betray.The Death of Jesus set me free:Then what have I to do with thee? To Winter O Winter! bar thine adamantine doors:The north is thine; there hast thou built thy darkDeep-founded habitation. Shake not thy roofs,Nor bend thy pillars with thine iron car.'He hears me not, but o'er the yawning deepRides heavy; his storms are unchain'd, sheathèdIn ribbèd steel; I dare not lift mine eyes,For he hath rear'd his sceptre o'er the world. Lo! now the direful monster, whose  skin clingsTo his strong bones, strides o'er the groaning rocks:He withers all in silence, and in his handUnclothes the earth, and freezes up frail life. He takes his seat upon the cliffs,--the marinerCries in vain. Poor little wretch, that deal'stWith storms!--till heaven smiles, and the monsterIs driv'n yelling to his caves beneath mount Hecla. When Klopstock England Defied When Klopstock England defied,Uprose  in his pride;For old Nobodaddy aloft. . . and belch'd and cough'd;Then swore a great oath that made Heaven quake,And call'd aloud to English Blake.Blake was giving his body ease,At Lambeth beneath the poplar trees.From his seat then started heAnd turn'd him round three times three.The moon at that sight blush'd scarlet red,The stars threw down their cups and fled,And all the devils that were in hell, Answerèd with a ninefold yell.Klopstock felt the intripled turn,And all his bowels began to churn,And his bowels turn'd round three times three,And lock'd in his soul with a ninefold key; . . .Then again old Nobodaddy sworeHe ne'er had seen such a thing before,Since Noah was shut in the ark,Since Eve first chose her hellfire spark,Since 'twas the fashion to go naked,Since the old Anything was created . . . Why Should I Care For The Men Of Thames Why should I care for the men of thamesOr the cheating waves of charter'd streamsOr shrink at the little blasts of fearThat the hireling blows into my ear Tho born on the cheating banks of ThamesTho his waters bathed my infant limbsThe Ohio shall wash his stains from meI was born a slave but I go to be free. Why Was Cupid A Boy Why was Cupid a boy,And why a boy was he?He should have been a girl,For aught that I can see. For he shoots with his bow,And the girl shoots with her eye,And they both are merry and glad,And laugh when we do cry. And to make Cupid a boyWas the Cupid girl's mocking plan;For a boy can't interpret the thingTill he is become a man. And then he's so pierc'd with cares,And wounded with arrowy smarts,That the whole business of his lifeIs to pick out the heads of the darts. 'Twas the Greeks' love of warTurn'd Love into a boy,And woman into a statue of stone--And away fled every joy. You Don'T Believe You don't believe -- I won't attempt to make ye:You are asleep -- I won't attempt to wake ye.Sleep on! sleep on! while in your pleasant dreamsOf Reason you may drink of Life's clear streams.Reason and Newton, they are quite two things;For so the swallow and the sparrow sings. Reason says `Miracle': Newton says `Doubt.'Aye! that's the way to make all Nature out.`Doubt, doubt, and don't believe without experiment':That is the very thing that Jesus meant,When He said `Only believe! believe and try!Try, try, and never mind the reason why!'#2A Dose Of Honesty We talk of positivityA dose of the opposite...Is fine by me. We are creatures of bothTo be too one-way... Is stupidity inclined. Negative one minute positive nextAre you one or the other like meNow it’s time to be honest. A Dram Of Hope A dram of hopeis drunk moresweetly than acask of despair. A Life Coach A life coachEncouragesFlowersTo attract bees. From the hiveShe directsBy wagglingHer tail. If onlyShe couldDirect themTo her flowers. A Long Lost Refrain Spare us from your painWe look out the windowpaneThe whole of nature is out thereIt is better prepared without fearWhen we all cry out from insideScreaming out our pain like incoming tidesSpare us your pain it's a long lost refrainSongs of the past never last for the insane. A Refugee War came to herShe had to move onA refugee...No one cares.Should they? Adrift In The Sea Of Life Casting an anchorIt sank in the sea of lifeNever to reach the bottomAdrift, not knowingWhere it would take us. Amorphous Mass Of Beings We parlay they as someone realDo we know their eyesWhere they hideAmorphous mass of beingsAll seeing, knowingDefined by usThe omnibus. Beacon In The Cosmos Travelling alone.....EarthThat light in the darkA beacon in the cosmosGoing nowhere, thereFixed by gravityFor eternitySpinning its lightOur home for life. Black And White Wings Black and whiteWings flappingSinging on a rockOn the shoreAt dawn togetherNature naturalObserved today. Bridges Of Faith Crossing all bridges of FaithWe must look below... Where nature's waters flowAt the close of dayWe see the dark cosmosIts light flows from the Big Bang. Crossing all bridges of FaithWe must examine human knowledge... Examining all fossils over millions of yearsWe know how humankind was evolvedFrom Mother Nature's primordial swampUnicellar to multicellularHuman Beings arrivedSome two hundred millennia past. Combining all bridges of FaithWe must see...That they have loved to invent godsFor every known occurrenceBased on lack of knowledgeTo supplement unknowns. Brotherhood Of Women A man is a manWoman a womanTogether oneA human being. Lifegivers togetherAdvancing humankindFrom the beginning. A woman is a womanMan a manDo not dictateOne to the other. Brothers and sistersSisterhood of manBrotherhood of women. Carrying Sorrow All the sorrow she carriesLeaking into her destinyGoing where she goesThere is no escape. Casino Of Life In the Casino of LifeWe are all playersSome think they are winnersLosers think they are losers. Winners or losersLife takes all...No one ever escapes aliveThis is the house rule. Certainty Created Love creates love with certaintyNo doubt appears in its wakeIt is there without fear, tremblingFull of feeling in its kindnessFelt inside resisting all senseKnowing only its kind, seeing blindWoven in a carpet for all to seeSatisfied by its presence inviolateIn its intensity creates desireTo kiss and hug forever and ever. Circle Of Dreams Into the circle of dreams they cameFlailing apparitions ready to danceIn untamed emptinessA ghostly sight in moonlightFirefly-like turned inside outDancing lights of nightDelighting night in her nightgownGoing up and down all aroundPinpoint pointing intermittentlyWispy wispsAs night was eaten by dawn.Where did they go? Circus Of Life Three frisky squirrelsJuggling nutsIn the circus of life. Climbing Upon Our Dreams Into the flames of darknessWe cast every dreamSighing inside without speaking. Whence comes the echoesIs it our past or futureWe know not which. Climbing upon our dreamsThere are beams that shineThis is where we are happy. But for how long? Cold Stare Of Winter The cold stare of winterFreezes window panesSo we cannot see outside. Colors Of Life Life sings the song of beingHere we all start seeingEverything coming our waySpending and consuming our daysReaching out for all to touchNothing appears to be too much. Every flower has color, its bloomUntil the night of its gloomThe brightness of life soon fadesEach day accumulated turns grayA life filled with music and songWhen exposed to its end is not long. Contemplate The Night Black cat watched the moonOn a branch in its shadowLife had been bad since noonOne meow was enough to knowThat she was purred-offTime to contemplate the nightMaybe after a bite. Cosmic Choristers In the night of darknessLit by thoughts of beyondImagination flies cosmically. Life the luster of every star.Have we we all come from afarShining on all other life forms. As the dawn greets daylightWe hear cosmic choristersSeemingly, coming from dying stars. Crater Of Sorrows There is no midnight in my heartAll time has moved on to tomorrowCreating a crater for my sorrowsInside I am alive but falling apartAs the song birds sing their songsI do not know where my heart belongsWhen you see me I will always smileTake me not at face value I am a lie. Creating Life After Death Nobody gets out of life aliveDeath takes her time to arrive. We cannot survive life if deadThose fortunate minds take all. Relying on others they have beliefsCreating their own life after death. No one has ever and will never confirmThat a soul has arrived that is not infirm. Life after death is all crafted illusionThere is no need to be sucked into confusion. Destination Predetermined In this illusion we call lifeThere are nights and daysThat come after and before, followingIn each we are travellingTravellers with our bags packedOur destination predetermined. Like those illusionistWho created their lives before usFrom nothing we came into life's gameGiven a name we are lameInto this life we came without blameNow it is time to create, gather allAround our delusions all illusions. Discordant Dreams Discordant dreams are what they seemFairy floss hurriedly consumedWaiting there to appear unrelatedDelivered at any time without rhymeLetting whispering mists insist realityReal reeled back to begin anewSome other time in a fit often refinedTravelling with travellers across open skiesHopeful and joyful they are intertwined. Divorce Divorce is a horseRunning away saddledTo appear on a racecourseRidden by another jockey. Don't Panic! Don't panic!Your life is hereOn automaticFrom day to day. When it hits a bumpShock sets inKnocking you for sixThen reality hits. It will be hereTomorrow as usualAnd thereafterHold that buttonUntil it is needed. Meanwhile lay backYou are on trackTo continue to attackLife without worrying. Dork From Cork There was a dork from CorkShe was very fond of porkOff to market she rodeSaw a sausage on the roadAte it heartedly with a fork. Dreaming A Dream He dreams a dream, it seemsWriting to his emptinessChest full of hopeThat one day...Maybe, one day, soonHe will receive a letterThat fulfills his efforts. Dressed By Age At the apogee of our flightFinally, we are here. We ask pathetically, wherehas our time gone? Days of action, inaction,living and loving. Dressed by our age we engagestill flying to, albeit slowly. Will our sorrows be full of morrowsExpressed in the time borrowed. Dressed By Life Dressed by lifeSo many colorsUndressed. Edge Of Existence The song of life is oursIts verses we sing aloneLives short or long belongAlways inside we must travelLife is there to unravelThe world exists in our yearsOnly because we are hereWe are life it is ours to devourHour by hour, it is now, we bowOnce life departs there is noneThe edge of existence is defined. Eking Out Time We are our dreams of tomorrowToday we are left with time borrowedYesterday we played fretting timeNow, is the hour we devourEking out the time we have left. Endear Each Day Life belongs to its own songSustained by each of its versesSome are worse or simply perverseAll have pulsating rhythmsComing from the heart to the organsBreathing air we are hereInfused in the rate of our declineIn inclination there is participationAs the songs of life are syncopationsHeard in the trees the birds sing longEncouraging every song to traverse, hearThe years that we are putting awayCome so quickly as we playSwallowing our time is the chimeThat we should endear each day. Epic Poem Life Every life is an epic poemUnwritten but expressed lightFull of love, pathos and hope. Dressed by nature at dawnWaiting for a life to be bornThe new day awaits its call. The windfall of life, its fruitsAll roots take hold, life is boldEvery stanza holds its promise. Into life with its rhythm and proseAll fruits fall to be eaten by lifeFinally reappearing in its own anthology. Every God Every god has its dayIn the mindsOf those who work and play. Everything About Nothing ReligionsConcentrateOn afterlife. Never, everKnowingOne. Draws faithfulWho want toKnow all. Humans loveEverythingThat explainsNothing. Excesses Of Youth Foretold Let youth's excessesRun unthinkingly; fast Into middle age, apaceHolding everything in Until old age's faceTrying not to succumb To excesses of youthExpressed in middle age. Exhausting Our Years We have exhausted our yearsThey have brought us hereHow many more may we storeThis is the question we imploreNo one can give a definte answerIt depends solely on our chancesBeing more by increasing our score. Face Of Destiny The face of destinyTurns so slowlyTo see reality. Faceless Faces Faceless faces face usNot seeing or knowingOne from the otherMorphing over our timeTo an amorphous crowdChattering cheeks speakInto the smartphonesThat answer us back. Facing Mortality To face mortalityWe envy immortalityDressed in nakednessEscape is hopeless. We face mortalityShe points her fingerFollow me human oneCome to your finalityJump into eternity. Faith Is Our Hope Hope is the repository for faithFaith is where we place our hopeTogether they live in our prayers. Life without hope is pointlessTurning everyday into hopelessnessFaith rises above hope in optimism. A positive existence needs persistenceTurning negativity on its headFaith is our hope to live in resistance. Feeling The Soul We of little care...Take our misery fanning itHere, there, everywhere. Just stares from the awareKnowing the sufferingFeeling the soul as told. Pretending life is oursEvery hour thinking...That we are being devoured. From the inside to the outsideIt shows our lack of copingWe of little care, here, everywhere. Finally United In the ties that bindInvisible but designedMagntic, crisscrossingHumankind, cosmic linesUnbelievably refinedNot dependent on beliefIn times of grief appearJust there, out of the airYou stare, finally united. Flaying Sorrows We choose today...To flay our sorrows. Tomorrow, they stayAlways here, aware. When will they go? Flowers Yet To Bloom Those that are unknown to usAre rides that we cannot derideThey are poems to be writtenVerses and songs that we will singUnknown soldiers in upcoming battlesFlowers yet to seed and bloomIn the gloom that are tomorrowsWe will borrow the sun to comeLooking at the moon that has yet no phasesWe will step into the days that roll byRemembering that we will always hearThe heartbeats of those yet to come near. Footprints Over The Past Footprints walkingover our past Indents in the sandsof mind Washed away in memoryleaving grit. From Stone To Sculptures Imagination turns stoneInto upright sculpturesEaster Island statuesLooking out over centuries. Gardens That Flower Finding tolerance where none existedLifts clouds above the horizon, exposedShowing the sky darkened by wrong thoughtsNow punctuated with the natural stateA picture of delight in the world of turmoil. Life is full of intolerant minds on paradeStanding in line showing their colors to allNot minding that they are out of stepTolerant minds come from behind demonstratingThat about turns are possible in every instance. Standing at ease it is easy to please every occasionWe just need to be shown the right way to fall into stepBeing aligned minds full of goodwill can go up any hillThis is the life of successful growing communitiesWhere diversity flowers in the world's gardens Hand Extended The blue crab pincers extendedLooked up at the humanBoth products of evolutionA hand ws extended to kill. Having Been Released Encapsulated forever...From the moment it is written....The PoemCarrying its messageInto tomorrow from yesterdayIts future secure foreverHaving been releasedTo seed others' minds. Home Amongst Stars The sunflower facing the sunDialled every beam it seemedYellow upon yellow. Alone in a field of red peoniesIt was not feeling lonelyHome amongst stars. Every flower bowed to the sunVisited by birds and beesNo one was superior to the other. How Much Knowledge Do We Need How much knowledge is there in humankindTo traverse all seas? Scale all mountaintops from behindClimb every tree in this world of ours. To know every plant that others destroyCure every disease with consummate ease. How much knowledge is enough to knowThat creatures of nature are dying? How much at the hands of dispassionate manIs the environment polluted by his hand? How much knowledge is enough for humankindTo understand that we were all born to die? Never to appear on Earth ever againtThat this is no probability for nature's design How much knowledge is enough to know how toConquer all poverty and inequality? How much do we need to know that we are onehuman family that came out of Africa? When will we know that racism is a lack of knowledgeAbout where we all came from? In Forgiveness In forgiveness... We see sand washed bythe next wave. All footprints are wipedclean. In forgiveness... We are no longer burdenedwith unpleasant thoughts. Now, moving forward not backgaining our freedom. In forgiveness... Perpetrators stay imprisoned for life.The wronged are given the keys. Into the ocean of despair the keys go,only recoverable by a heartfelt apology. In Winter's Dream In winter's dream it is midnightMorning will not appear this yearWith its chant of spring. To extend its season it has reasonAs every season wants to hold onTo its essence that is pleasing. The air has a cold spell to chillArbitrarily turning a season to anotherHas accosted what it is not there. Winter's coat so white is to stare and bareAs nature is not aware and holds its lightFor a much longer season that is so fair. Naked at midnight winter has moonlight awareSpring do not ring your knell wait another nightA little longer to let winter dissipate. Keeping Them Alive Inside, living, multiplyingdividing alive,crowding. There causing fear, colonisingwanting to beeverywhere. Once inside they can never bestopped; doctors musttry. When is enough, enough, the questionmust arise, keeping themalive. Let Death Live Let death live alive nowIt has a memory derivedFrom living a lìfe. Ìn memory we see hòwA life lived is devouredCruely, but kindly now. As we know its undertowIs where we will all goBut we will be remembered. Let Them Know They live in ignoranceUnaware of the starlightThat they shineUpon others. Thinking their reachIs only on their beachLet them know we love themAnd all the light they thow. Let Your Song Out To sing with birdsong, inspiredWe fly with our wings on fire. Treble warbles are ours to bringInto all the songs inside to sing. Life is one great song where we belongIt matters not whether it is long. Every life has a unique song of its ownTo write that song we must not postpone. Sing your song loudly or silently it's yoursBring out every note, let it rain, let it pour. Life Gives And Takes Away Our first and last breathInhaled and expiredLife begins and ends. Life gives no more than othersProvides the air we breatheAnd takes it away. Derived from nothing to somethingEmbraced by all, our footfallsStepping out then not at all. Life Where Is Your Mystery O Life where is your mystery?Creating our histories. Day by day you relay night and dayComing hour by hour devouring time. You say it is ours to spendYet, you are the one that expends. O Life let us live by the truthYou let us borrow time exponentiallyWe at the end can never pay it back. Your totality is our reality; deathHere we cry spare us mortal soulsBeing no mystery you treat all equally. Life's Door Life opens its doorLet's everyone soarWhen the door shutsThen everyone tutsWhy are you so sad? Light That Flourishes The light of loveBurns brightlyAnd rightly soIn all heartsThat flourish. Lighted The Sun In its light the sun spreads joyIt has the heat in its employNe'er coming too soonWe enjoy it well past the noonGiving succor to earth's delightsIt then must disappear into nightWith the moon's yellow glowIt is still there so everyone knows. Lit From Yesterdays O candle shadowy flameYou have no known fameFlicking arcs in the darkLit from all those yesterdaysBecoming unknown tomorrowsBorrowing from yourselfSelfish, sorrowful, wistfulPulling moths to your flame. Loaded With Envy Loaded with envy she expandedLike a buffoon and let goEvery word squeezed outWe were not left in doubtThat all her air has goneWith envy now depletedShe was still a woebegone. Looking For Light In its tune magic escapesFlute-like playing lightTurning it into starlight. The cosmos has all the chordsTurning mysteries inside outWhere light travels vastly. From the beginning with imprecisionBang against bang, unbelievablyA magicians wand creating. In its space the human raceAlone in the depths of darknessLooking for light. Love Is Never The Question To love or not to loveThat is never the questionWhen love offers her handIt can never be refusedAs life must be livedAccording to what is offeredJust as rain cannot be stoppedLove casts her spells that we feelInside it causes palpitationsIt cannot ever be denied. Mirror City Mirror city here, thereReflections in mindCars spewing gassesWind, rain, trains, busesAccidents, ambulances, whistlesPolice, guns, sirens, helicoptersWe see what we want to seeReflections in mindStrangers coming and goingHugs, kisses, near missesReflections of civilisation. Moving On In Forgiveness In forgiveness... We cleanse trangressorsWho did us wrong. In forgiveness... Opens thw way forwardTo continueWithout burden. In forgiveness... We know we were wrongedYet, we feel strongerFor the tasks ahead. In forgiveness... We are truly sorryAs we recogniseThat humans are weak. My Popularity Lifter Ode to you wispy wispI owe you a beer for your liftLifted above my competenceI feel like I'm incompetentNevertheless, on my dressI shall impress a broachThat will show wispinessA true wraith figmentOf the unimaginable. Nature's Magic Waving a wandOver the EarthNature's creationIs beyond imaginationAnd any human's kenTo paint or writeWith a brush or penAbout the sheer beautyAnd delight of its magic. Nothing Is There Wrapped in its historyA mystery to othersTo itself an enigmaUnwapped at deathNothing is there. O Human Imagination O human imagination!Believe anything in faith.The thoughts of others.Grasping at straws opens doorsInside we see:......Crucifixes......Stained glass windows......Altars......Figments of imagination......Peace....... Ocean Of Despair A painted ocean, blueTwo sailing shipsSailing before the windSuddely, the sky darkensThunderous roars roil the airAs lightening is everywhereThe sea from white created wavesIs alive with doomOne ship is swallowedAs the other, sails tornIs thrown onwards to the edgeIts very existence teeteringOn the ocean of despair. One Arm Two Hands The musicianOne arm two handsPlayed in a bandTrumpet and clarinetTimed perfectlyEach cheek puffed outIncredible but true. Only One What is one lifeOne of billionsSinging one songNever number oneOnly One. Only Poetry Only poetry can buildIts own realityOut of wordsThat are never heard. Our Design Is Nature's Creation Nature is our solace and joyLooking all around it is hereFor all to see, to be aware. To notice a little birdFlying here and thereAlive in our thoughts, stare. Nature exists everywhere, nearIt is not ours to own or fearWe are part of its matrix. Our design is in its creationLet us marvel with elationAs we are woven in its fabric. Our Own Rhyme To Reason We all walk through lifeThere is no pattern for the lastAs no shoe will fit allA life on display is not boughtIt must be taught its own walkThis is our talk uniquely statedWhere we find our own rhyme to reasonAs we travel through our own seasonsLife is life short or longIn it we we all belong. Our Song Inside this song we belongedEach word brings tears...This was ours over the yearsTogether we listenedTo the melody withinNow, we are left aloneJust sitting at homeRemembering. Passionless Fruit What is love that is full of careLiving as if it stands and staresPretending it is what we needWhen it has never ridden a steed. What is love that is full of careWhen it has never been anywhere nearDevoid of life it never knew youEscaped without your view. What is love that is full of careThat never faced wear and tearNever grew young or old alivePassionless fruit rotten inside. What is love that is full of careIf love has not reached inside awareNot ever received how can it be givenGiving love must be natural not driven. Playing Midnight's Tune Sequenced sequin starlightPierces each heartColored golden, silverDelivered right. Delightful nights held tightHeaven's swoon openedInto the rooms of starlightFestooned explosive lights. Holding our breath we marvelAt all that opens aboveCosmic parades without shadesPlaying midnight's tune. Poetry Is All Or Nothing We Know Poetry lives in the shade betweenOur dreams and realityFantasies and depths of despairLove and hate measuredWhere Poets frame insightsBringing light into shadowsFilling spaces that were emptyCovering all those naked thoughtsGiving strength out of weaknessesInspiring nature to show her colorsTalking to the stars asking them to shinePoetry is all or nothing we know. Poet's Eye The Poet's eyeSees lifeDifferently. Focussed withinWithoutAll about. Every thoughtDirectedIn words. Poets Hear Its Call Poets hear its callDancing in heartsAnnounced or unannouncedGaily running through daysThey have no choicePoetry is there to stay. Presumptuous Writers Those presumptuous writersTell us something that we should knowNot interested in their readersThey think everytime they blink. Read And Enjoy Poetry is all and nothingIt appears out of thin airJust there for the awareRead and enjoy! Receiving What Is Given Every lesson life teachesMakes room for anotherUntil you are teachingLife from your experienceIt will be receptiveTo receive all that is given. Relevance Deprivation Therapy Life is so fullThe relevantWearing sports gearSome with flairOthers like underwearNow, we all likeTo be relevantTo ourselves and othersSister, brother, mothersEnrol today of all daysGather your shortsCome to the gymAnd receive yourRelevance deprivationTherapy. Screaming Inspiration When I scream Inspiration!The she-devil appears. What do you want, she sayssarcastically? I don't know what you mean,I have never heard the word. Don't you mean perspiration,wiping her brow? I know now is not the time to write. Turning the computer off, I go to bed. Showing The Way In political correctnessRight showing wrongSelf-appointed arbitersShowing us the way. Solely One I have been thinkingOn this cloud of mineThat we are really aloneNo matter what they sayYet, our hearts are full. We are pulled into the seaWhere we see others like usLiving here and thereFull of love and fearsYet, our hearts are full. Riding the trains with ghostsWe are all the hosts togetherOur colored eyes see the worldFrom inside to the outsideYet, our hearts are full. Life sets each of us apartWe can never ever be anotherFor we are always solely oneHaving won our freedom and prisonYet, our hearts are full. Solutions To Puzzlement In its shade life appearedDerived out of nothingnessBringing its human form. Some deformed not yet informedCreations evolved to be solvedSolutions to its own puzzlement. Life O give us Life; now extantWhere do we fit where do we goInside to the outside it is here. Sorrowful Love In the window of tomorrowwill be all our sorrows. Seen and felt they liveopenly in the seas of grief. Love as bright as a new daywill come into play. Kissing eyes that have seenall. Sorrow and love ride each otheras they are thieves. Taking from each other theysmother breaching our tomorrows. Spirited Bird Spirited bird...Addresses an azure skyWings clap every cloudGliding with every breeze. Spirited bird...Against all conceivable oddsMeasures life in flightLifting all spirits. Spirited bird...Colored in rainbow skiesSings songs that belongTo all if only we could hear. Stripped Of Its Glory The sun shinedOn number four Sunglow AvenueThrough the rusty sheets of roof ironA house built before the Depression years. Overlooking the sea...It was not hard to notice the decaySmacked by time and windIt needed paint where there was noneStripped of its gloryA door banged open and shut. Therein lived a family of tenRent was never paidAs a dollar was needed for the gas meterLife was expressed in laughter and tears. Suffering With Children Populate or perishWe hear the callFrom up high. It is right to callThose with a needAll bleeding fools. Suffering with childrenIs not the only needFor women to heed. Those with professionsMust use all they haveTo grab like a man. The days where eggsMust be fertilisedAre long gone. A woman like a manMust choose their wayNot sway to other fools. Tear Of Fear Every tear of fearForces the heartTo scream. The Dust Of Time In the circle of circularityDrawn by the mathematics of timeAn equation of relationships. We are the result, blow-insFrom the beginning of everythingSteeped in our life. Creatures of reason and unreasonSeeking eternal lifeRelying on others to fill our minds. Eternity promised from those who knewRepeated ad nauseum in every pewClosing the circle for the righteous. The cosmic winds blow all in and outThe dust of time dissolves unrealitiesBlowing all there with their fears. Overarching reality is hard to swallowWhen others point to scripts full of mythsBelieve what others say no thinking needed. The Poet's Eye The poet's eyeSees life differentlySalvador Dali of words. Painting ships in oceansFloating in lighted skiesAcross the purple pink cosmos Coloring wings that singRevealing what lies beneathTwixt reality and unreality. An artist holding stringsPulling existence and non-existenceTogether as if everything matters. Thinking Common Thoughts When the President is commonWe think common thoughtsUndermining the Constitution. Where is the power now, this hourHas it been diluted by HimA crass usurper? This Poetry Of Mine This poetry of mineHas no way to be definedIt belongs only to meYou think of the seaIt is my ocean of commotionBut so much moreIt opens doors...To the mysteries of my lifeCovering all my strifeThe way I live and thinkMy bio that you don't knowNeither do I, it will appearMaybe tomorrow or next yearWait and see just like meTogether, my readers I will leadInto the wonderland of lifeYou, too, can see yourselfJust read all my poetryIt is here for us bothInside each line we are one mind. This Queer World In this queer world of oursHumans are swelling out nowGrowing so obese with easeIn all corners fatties sneezeLarger than life they travelHave you ever heard the babbleNow, I'm not adverse to foodBut not in every kind of moodMore than most they eat toastSmother in butter they boastLife ain't what it used to beWhen we went for a walk to seeIt is the great exception todayNo one wants to go and playOn phones they take images and talkThen to look they go to FacebookSitting down is so fashionableIt's a wonder they can sit at allBottoms so wide they just can't hideWobbles are not novel on the outside. Threadbare Existence In poverty, impoverishedThe poor open their doorsInside we see what they see. A threadbare existence livedIt is theirs alone to shareWe feel sympathetic but pathetic. How can we solve the world's problemsSo vast and deep, unsolvableIn poverty they must sleep. Throw All Religions To The Wind Throw all religions to the wind... In all they are certain of sinNo matter how old the future is foretold. If not followed the sinner is swallowedBy the words of high they will not reach the sky. Life of the recalcitrant has no hope of redemptionThere are no exceptions in the Words that are foretold. No use to dismiss what is said, eventually all are deadUnder the spell of every word that has been bled. Time From Time Stranded on the edgeOf the beginningLooking at the music. Time's shadows expandPast every earthly personThose known and unknown. The music has the beatReverbrating around soundTaking time from time. To Know Is Not To Know To know is not to know what followsAfter the dawn will the sun rise? To know is not to know what followsWill we be alive tomorrow? Let the sun rise tomorrowWill our hearts be full of love or sorrow? Totalled In Finality When all is lost; accostedGrief has no belief in relief. In its finality we are totalledThe sum of one is enough for everyone. Life gives all stairs to travel up, downIn its babble we must hear those tears. Triumph Of Mankind The light of the sunBelongs to no oneAs the air we breatheIs it not also free? We exist as a speciesTotally dependent on natureYet, we shout to the moonLook at our superiorityThe triumph of mankind. We are bent to the willOf the natural worldSwept away by avalanchesDrowned by the high tide. Two By Two Love takes away painOf being one for oneKissed by reflections. Another comes into viewSeeing what we cannot seeYou of you is in its view. Solitude is amplified by twoIn love and being lovedTwo by two. Unable To Vocalise He a paragon of his faithSpoke only in clichesSuccumbed to throat cancerUnable to vocalise. Warmongers In the Roman arena of lifeWe the spectators watch strifeIn come the warmongers issuing threatsNuclear swords raised ready to strikeThis was our past and futureUncivilized or civilized we are apprisedTanks crush the lions into squashed rugsBlood wiped off the arena, hyenas laughWe hear the roar of dissidentsAs the warplanes drown out the noise. Waterfall One word is heardSeveral a waterfallForever flowing. We Have Heard We have heardThe righteous...Words...GodsWere derivedFrom not everBeing alive! We Rocked Night Nearly thirty...Brownish hair rightLippy pink like inkSquirted Two RosesLotsa swells hereShortish mauve skirtBared legs, sexyRed high heels. Down at the jointWe rocked nightFlashing lightsGuys looking for guysGirls fretting...More and more liquorDrugged mugsMorning came too soon. Gunfight banged lightOne helluva Saturday night. We Talk Of Time We talk of time that's fineIt does not speak to usA human construct, measuringGoing from one second to anotherCreating structure in livesIts beat is heard all dayInto night and dawnWe are unable to see it disappearIn microseconds the past occursMaking us continually living thereChimes are the time gone foreverNever recovered as we discoverIn no time at all our life is gone. What An Ado The time has comeTo be an old maidGreat, on my kneesScubbing if you pleaseTell me what to doAs I am stupoThe bath you sayToilet firstIt has just burstWith all thatStuff coming outOf that refined mouthThe time has comeTo succumb to destinyWhat an ado. What We All Know When cliches meet clichesThey unite gaily unawareThey are here and everywhereExpressing what we all know. When All Colors Have Gone When all colors have goneThe song of life ceases to beMemories are shaped by othersShadows that pass by insideThe garden of flowers wiltedEmptiness surrounds happy soundsThis is where life was once found. When Will It End Life a mysteryFrom beginningTo end. Stares at eternityEarth to theCosmos. Where did it beginWhen will itEnd? Where We Live Reaching inside, lookingOur mysteries lie behindThe centre of being, lifeThis is where we live. Thinking obliquely, so uniquelyEverything we know; pastThe light on our hill in the darkThis is where we live. Every experience forming memoriesFlashing upon our screens in betweenWithout any prompting...This is where we live. Romancing our souls, feelings liftedTaking it in our stride, full of hopeCrying out our painThis is where we live. Whoosh! Zoom! I'm inclined to be a witchO yes and also a.....So what you sayWell it does matterTo those we knowI'm not happy being a.....But a witch yes sireeYou can see I have a black catAnd half a dozen broom sticksWhen the full moon appearsIt's my time to fly off the handle............Woosh!I'm off for a ride of my lifeCat handles her seat wellYellow moon above me, cat and broom............Zoom! Why O Why That black cat upon a branchLooks at the orange moonA shadow in its lightLike everyone we see at nightWhy is she thereWhy O why are we? Wings Of Destiny On the wings of destinyCarried high above seasTo be what life promisedWhen we are on our knees. Life can be cruel or kindDestiny gives every chanceTo drop hope with such easeGrowing to prosper everyday. Destiny takes all on a rideFrom its beginning to the endTaking a promise to fruitionSeeming to do it with precision Winter Wonderland Trees heavy with snowDrooping branchesReflect winter's show. Cruel winds bite warmthAs we ski in wonderPast and onwards. Frozen in time a pictureIn our mindsA winter wonderland. Wounding Words She was nasty and capable of stabbingthose she disliked with wounding words. Finally, her nature left her susceptibleto cancer inside. Dying making the sign of the cross shewas unable to forment another bad thought. She was remembered for her disgustingbehaviour by those who fell under her wrath. Written On The Wind Written on the windThe sounds that singListen, this is a song. "In White": Frost's Early Version Of Design A dented spider like a snow drop whiteOn a white Heal-all, holding up a mothLike a white piece of lifeless satin cloth -Saw ever curious eye so strange a sight? -Portent in little, assorted death and blightLike the ingredients of a witches' broth? -The beady spider, the flower like a froth,And the moth carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white,The blue prunella every child's delight.What brought the kindred spider to that height?(Make we no thesis of the miller's plight.)What but design of darkness and of night?Design, design! Do I use the word aright?   A Boundless Moment He halted in the wind, and -  what was thatFar in the maples, pale, but not a ghost?He stood there bringing March against his thought,And yet too ready to believe the most. 'Oh, that's the Paradise-in-bloom,' I said;And truly it was fair enough for flowershad we but in us to assume in marchSuch white luxuriance of May for ours. We stood a moment so in a strange world,Myself as one his own pretense deceives;And then I said the truth (and we moved on) .A young beech clinging to its last year's leaves. A Brook In The City The farmhouse lingers, though averse to squareWith the new city street it has to wearA number in. But what about the brookThat held the house as in an elbow-crook?I ask as one who knew the brook, its strengthAnd impulse, having dipped a finger lengthAnd made it leap my knuckle, having tossedA flower to try its currents where they crossed.The meadow grass could be cemented downFrom growing under pavements of a town;The apple trees be sent to hearth-stone flame.Is water wood to serve a brook the same?How else dispose of an immortal forceNo longer needed? Staunch it at its sourceWith cinder loads dumped down? The brook was thrownDeep in a sewer dungeon under stoneIn fetid darkness still to live and run --And all for nothing it had ever doneExcept forget to go in fear perhaps.No one would know except for ancient mapsThat such a brook ran water. But I wonderIf from its being kept forever under,The thoughts may not have risen that so keepThis new-built city from both work and sleep. A Cliff Dwelling There sandy seems the golden skyAnd golden seems the sandy plain.No habitation meets the eyeUnless in the horizon rim,Some halfway up the limestone wall,That spot of black is not a stainOr shadow, but a cavern hole,Where someone used to climb and crawlTo rest from his besetting fears.I see the callus on his soulThe disappearing last of himAnd of his race starvation slim,Oh years ago - ten thousand years. A Considerable Speck (Microscopic) A speck that would have been beneath my sightOn any but a paper sheet so whiteSet off across what I had written there.And I had idly poised my pen in airTo stop it with a period of inkWhen something strange about it made me think,This was no dust speck by my breathing blown,But unmistakably a living miteWith inclinations it could call its own.It paused as with suspicion of my pen,And then came racing wildly on againTo where my manuscript was not yet dry;Then paused again and either drank or smelt--With loathing, for again it turned to fly.Plainly with an intelligence I dealt.It seemed too tiny to have room for feet,Yet must have had a set of them completeTo express how much it didn't want to die.It ran with terror and with cunning crept.It faltered: I could see it hesitate;Then in the middle of the open sheetCower down in desperation to acceptWhatever I accorded it of fate.I have none of the tenderer-than-thouCollectivistic regimenting loveWith which the modern world is being swept.But this poor microscopic item now!Since it was nothing I knew evil ofI let it lie there till I hope it slept. I have a mind myself and recognizeMind when I meet with it in any guiseNo one can know how glad I am to findOn any sheet the least display of mind. A Girl's Garden A neighbor of mine in the villageLikes to tell how one springWhen she was a girl on the farm, she didA childlike thing. One day she asked her fatherTo give her a garden plotTo plant and tend and reap herself,And he said, 'Why not?' In casting about for a cornerHe thought of an idle bitOf walled-off ground where a shop had stood,And he said, 'Just it.' And he said, 'That ought to make youAn ideal one-girl farm,And give you a chance to put some strengthOn your slim-jim arm.' It was not enough of a gardenHer father said, to plow;So she had to work it all by hand,But she don't mind now. She wheeled the dung in a wheelbarrowAlong a stretch of road;But she always ran away and leftHer not-nice load, And hid from anyone passing.And then she begged the seed.She says she thinks she planted oneOf all things but weed. A hill each of potatoes,Radishes, lettuce, peas,Tomatoes, beets, beans, pumpkins, corn,And even fruit trees. And yes, she has long mistrustedThat a cider-appleIn bearing there today is hers,Or at least may be. Her crop was a miscellanyWhen all was said and done,A little bit of everything,A great deal of none. Now when she sees in the villageHow village things go,Just when it seems to come in right,She says, 'I know! 'It's as when I was a farmer...'Oh never by way of advice!And she never sins by telling the taleTo the same person twice. A Hillside Thaw To think to know the country and now knowThe hillside on the day the sun lets goTen million silver lizards out of snow!As often as I've seen it done beforeI can't pretend to tell the way it's done.It looks as if some magic of the sunLifted the rug that bred them on the floorAnd the light breaking on them made them run.But if I though to stop the wet stampede,And caught one silver lizard by the tail,And put my foot on one without avail,And threw myself wet-elbowed and wet-kneedIn front of twenty others' wriggling speed,-In the confusion of them all aglitter,And birds that joined in the excited funBy doubling and redoubling song and twitter,I have no doubt I'd end by holding none. It takes the moon for this. The sun's a wizardBy all I tell; but so's the moon a witch.From the high west she makes a gentle castAnd suddenly, without a jerk or twitch,She has her speel on every single lizard.I fancied when I looked at six o'clockThe swarm still ran and scuttled just as fast.The moon was waiting for her chill effect.I looked at nine: the swarm was turned to rockIn every lifelike posture of the swarm,Transfixed on mountain slopes almost erect.Across each other and side by side they lay.The spell that so could hold them as they wereWas wrought through trees without a breath of stormTo make a leaf, if there had been one, stir.One lizard at the end of every ray.The thought of my attempting such a stray! A Late Walk When I go up through the mowing field,The headless aftermath,Smooth-laid like thatch with the heavy dew,Half closes the garden path. And when I come to the garden ground,The whir of sober birdsUp from the tangle of withered weedsIs sadder than any words A tree beside the wall stands bare,But a leaf that lingered brown,Disturbed, I doubt not, by my thought,Comes softly rattling down. I end not far from my going forthBy picking the faded blueOf the last remaining aster flowerTo carry again to you. A Line-Storm Song The line-storm clouds fly tattered and swift,The road is forlorn all day,Where a myriad snowy quartz stones lift,And the hoof-prints vanish away.The roadside flowers, too wet for the bee,Expend their bloom in vain.Come over the hills and far with me,And be my love in the rain. The birds have less to say for themselvesIn the wood-world’s torn despairThan now these numberless years the elves,Although they are no less there:All song of the woods is crushed like someWild, easily shattered rose.Come, be my love in the wet woods; come,Where the boughs rain when it blows. There is the gale to urge behindAnd bruit our singing down,And the shallow waters aflutter with windFrom which to gather your gown.What matter if we go clear to the west,And come not through dry-shod?For wilding brooch shall wet your breastThe rain-fresh goldenrod. Oh, never this whelming east wind swellsBut it seems like the sea’s returnTo the ancient lands where it left the shellsBefore the age of the fern;And it seems like the time when after doubtOur love came back amain.Oh, come forth into the storm and routAnd be my love in the rain. A Minor Bird I have wished a bird would fly away,And not sing by my house all day; Have clapped my hands at him from the doorWhen it seemed as if I could bear no more. The fault must partly have been in me.The bird was not to blame for his key. And of course there must be something wrongIn wanting to silence any song. A Passing Glimpse To Ridgely TorrenceOn Last Looking into His 'Hesperides' I often see flowers from a passing carThat are gone before I can tell what they are. I want to get out of the train and go backTo see what they were beside the track. I name all the flowers I am sure they weren't;Not fireweed loving where woods have burnt- Not bluebells gracing a tunnel mouth-Not lupine living on sand and drouth. Was something brushed across my mindThat no one on earth will ever find? Heaven gives it glimpses only to thoseNot in position to look too close. A Patch Of Old Snow There's a patch of old snow in a cornerThat I should have guessedWas a blow-away paper the rainHad brought to rest. It is speckled with grime as ifSmall print overspread it,The news of a day I've forgotten --If I ever read it. A Peck of Gold Dust always blowing about the town,Except when sea-fog laid it down,And I was one of the children toldSome of the blowing dust was gold. All the dust the wind blew highAppeared like god in the sunset sky,But I was one of the children toldSome of the dust was really gold. Such was life in the Golden Gate:Gold dusted all we drank and ate,And I was one of the children told,'We all must eat our peck of gold.' A Prayer In Spring Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day;And give us not to think so far awayAs the uncertain harvest; keep us hereAll simply in the springing of the year. Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white,Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night;And make us happy in the happy bees,The swarm dilating round the perfect trees. And make us happy in the darting birdThat suddenly above the bees is heard,The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill,And off a blossom in mid air stands still. For this is love and nothing else is love,The which it is reserved for God aboveTo sanctify to what far ends He will,But which it only needs that we fulfil. A Question A voice said, Look me in the starsAnd tell me truly, men of earth,If all the soul-and-body scarsWere not too much to pay for birth. A Soldier He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled,That lies unlifted now, come dew, come rust,But still lies pointed as it plowed the dust.If we who sight along it round the world,See nothing worthy to have been its mark,It is because like men we look too near,Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere,Our missiles always make too short an arc.They fall, they rip the grass, they intersectThe curve of earth, and striking, break their own;They make us cringe for metal-point on stone.But this we know, the obstacle that checkedAnd tripped the body, shot the spirit onFurther than target ever showed or shone.A Time To Talk When a friend calls to me from the roadAnd slows his horse to a meaning walk,I don't stand still and look aroundOn all the hills I haven't hoed,And shout from where I am, What is it?No, not as there is a time to talk.I thrust my hoe in the mellow ground,Blade-end up and five feet tall,And plod: I go up to the stone wallFor a friendly visit. A Winter Eden A winter garden in an alder swamp,Where conies now come out to sun and romp,As near a paradise as it can beAnd not melt snow or start a dormant tree. It lifts existence on a plane of snowOne level higher than the earth below,One level nearer heaven overhead,And last year's berries shining scarlet red. It lifts a gaunt luxuriating beastWhere he can stretch and hold his highest featOn some wild apple tree's young tender bark,What well may prove the year's high girdle mark. So near to paradise all pairing ends:Here loveless birds now flock as winter friends,Content with bud-inspecting. They presumeTo say which buds are leaf and which are bloom. A feather-hammer gives a double knock.This Eden day is done at two o'clock.An hour of winter day might seem too shortTo make it worth life's while to wake and sport. Acceptance When the spent sun throws up its rays on cloudAnd goes down burning into the gulf below,No voice in nature is heard to cry aloudAt what has happened. Birds, at least must knowIt is the change to darkness in the sky.Murmuring something quiet in her breast,One bird begins to close a faded eye;Or overtaken too far from his nest,Hurrying low above the grove, some waifSwoops just in time to his remembered tree.At most he thinks or twitters softly, 'Safe!Now let the night be dark for all of me.Let the night bee too dark for me to seeInto the future. Let what will be, be.' Acquainted With The Night I have been one acquainted with the night.I have walked out in rain -  and back in rain.I have outwalked the furthest city light. I have looked down the saddest city lane.I have passed by the watchman on his beatAnd dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. I have stood still and stopped the sound of feetWhen far away an interrupted cryCame over houses from another street, But not to call me back or say good-bye;And further still at an unearthly height,One luminary clock against the sky Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.I have been one acquainted with the night. After Apple Picking My long two-pointed ladder's sticking through a treeToward heaven still.And there's a barrel that I didn't fillBeside it, and there may be two or threeApples I didn't pick upon some bough.But I am done with apple-picking now.Essence of winter sleep is on the night,The scent of apples; I am drowsing off.I cannot shake the shimmer from my sightI got from looking through a pane of glassI skimmed this morning from the water-trough,And held against the world of hoary grass.It melted, and I let it fall and break.But I was wellUpon my way to sleep before it fell,And I could tellWhat form my dreaming was about to take.Magnified apples appear and reappear,Stem end and blossom end,And every fleck of russet showing clear.My instep arch not only keeps the ache,It keeps the pressure of a ladder-round.And I keep hearing from the cellar-binThat rumbling soundOf load on load of apples coming in.For I have had too muchOf apple-picking; I am overtiredOf the great harvest I myself desired.There were ten thousand thousand fruit to touch,Cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall,For allThat struck the earth,No matter if not bruised, or spiked with stubble,Went surely to the cider-apple heapAs of no worth.One can see what will troubleThis sleep of mine, whatever sleep it is.Were he not gone,The woodchuck could say whether it's like hisLong sleep, as I describe its coming on,Or just some human sleep. An Empty Threat I stay;But it isn't as ifThere wasn't always Hudson's BayAnd the fur trade,A small skiffAnd a paddle blade. I can just see my tent pegged,And me on the floor,Cross-legged,And a trapper looking in at the doorWith furs to sell. His name's Joe,Alias John,And between what he doesn't knowAnd won't tellAbout where Henry Hudson's gone,I can't say he's much help;But we get on. The seal yelpOn an ice cake.It's not men by some mistake?No,There's not a soulFor a windbreakBetween me and the North Pole— Except always John-Joe,My French Indian Esquimaux,And he's off setting trapsIn one himself perhaps. Give a headshakeOver so much bayThrown awayIn snow and mistThat doesn't exist, I was going to say,For God, man, or beast's sake,Yet does perhaps for all three. Don't ask JoeWhat it is to him.It's sometimes dimWhat it is to me,Unless it beIt's the old captain's dark fateWho failed to find or force a straitIn its two-thousand-mile coast;And his crew left him where be failed,And nothing came of all be sailed. It's to say, 'You and I—'To such a ghost—You and IOff hereWith the dead race of the Great Auk!'And, 'Better defeat almost,If seen clear,Than life's victories of doubtThat need endless talk-talkTo make them out.' An Encounter ONCE on the kind of day called &quot;weather breeder,&quot;When the heat slowly hazes and the sunBy its own power seems to be undone,I was half boring through, half climbing throughA swamp of cedar. Choked with oil of cedarAnd scurf of plants, and weary and over-heated,And sorry I ever left the road I knew,I paused and rested on a sort of hookThat had me by the coat as good as seated,And since there was no other way to look,Looked up toward heaven, and there against the blue,Stood over me a resurrected tree,A tree that had been down and raised again—A barkless spectre. He had halted too,As if for fear of treading upon me.I saw the strange position of his hands—Up at his shoulders, dragging yellow strandsOf wire with something in it from men to men.&quot;You here?&quot; I said. &quot;Where aren't you nowadaysAnd what's the news you carry—if you know?And tell me where you're off for—Montreal?Me? I'm not off for anywhere at all.Sometimes I wander out of beaten waysHalf looking for the orchid Calypso.&quot; An Old Man's Winter Night All out of doors looked darkly in at himThrough the thin frost, almost in separate stars,That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.What kept his eyes from giving back the gazeWas the lamp tilted near them in his hand.What kept him from remembering what it wasThat brought him to that creaking room was age.He stood with barrels round him -- at a loss.And having scared the cellar under himIn clomping there, he scared it once againIn clomping off; -- and scared the outer night,Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roarOf trees and crack of branches, common things,But nothing so like beating on a box.A light he was to no one but himselfWhere now he sat, concerned with he knew what,A quiet light, and then not even that.He consigned to the moon, such as she was,So late-arising, to the broken moonAs better than the sun in any caseFor such a charge, his snow upon the roof,His icicles along the wall to keep;And slept. The log that shifted with a joltOnce in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.One aged man -- one man -- can't keep a house,A farm, a countryside, or if he can,It's thus he does it of a winter night. Asking For Roses A house that lacks, seemingly, mistress and master,With doors that none but the wind ever closes,Its floor all littered with glass and with plaster;It stands in a garden of old-fashioned roses. I pass by that way in the gloaming with Mary;'I wonder,' I say, 'who the owner of those is.''Oh, no one you know,' she answers me airy,'But one we must ask if we want any roses.' So we must join hands in the dew coming coldlyThere in the hush of the wood that reposes,And turn and go up to the open door boldly,And knock to the echoes as beggars for roses. 'Pray, are you within there, Mistress Who-were-you? ''Tis Mary that speaks and our errand discloses.'Pray, are you within there? Bestir you, bestir you!'Tis summer again; there's two come for roses. 'A word with you, that of the singer recalling- Old Herrick: a saying that every maid knows isA flower unplucked is but left to the falling,And nothing is gained by not gathering roses.' We do not loosen our hands' intertwining(Not caring so very much what she supposes) ,There when she comes on us mistily shiningAnd grants us by silence the boon of her roses. Atmosphere Inscription for a Garden Wall Winds blow the open grassy places bleak;But where this old wall burns a sunny cheek,They eddy over it too toppling weakTo blow the earth or anything self-clear;Moisture and color and odor thicken here.The hours of daylight gather atmosphere. Bereft Where had I heard this wind beforeChange like this to a deeper roar?What would it take my standing there for,Holding open a restive door,Looking down hill to a frothy shore?Summer was past and the day was past.Sombre clouds in the west were massed.Out on the porch's sagging floor,Leaves got up in a coil and hissed,Blindly struck at my knee and missed.Something sinister in the toneTold me my secret must be known:Word I was in the house aloneSomehow must have gotten abroad,Word I was in my life alone,Word I had no one left but God. Blue-Butterfly Day It is blue-butterfly day here in spring,And with these sky-flakes down in flurry on flurryThere is more unmixed color on the wingThan flowers will show for days unless they hurry. But these are flowers that fly and all but sing:And now from having ridden out desireThey lie closed over in the wind and clingWhere wheels have freshly sliced the April mire. Bond And Free Love has earth to which she clingsWith hills and circling arms about-Wall within wall to shut fear out.But Thought has need of no such things,For Thought has a pair of dauntless wings. On snow and sand and turn, I seeWhere Love has left a printed traceWith straining in the world's embrace.And such is Love and glad to beBut Thought has shaken his ankles free. Thought cleaves the interstellar gloomAnd sits in Sirius' disc all night,Till day makes him retrace his flightWith smell of burning on every plume,Back past the sun to an earthly room. His gains in heaven are what they are.Yet some say Love by being thrallAnd simply staying possesses allIn several beauty that Thought fares farTo find fused in another star. Brown's Descent Brown lived at such a lofty farmThat everyone for miles could seeHis lantern when he did his choresIn winter after half-past three. And many must have seen him makeHis wild descent from there one night,'Cross lots, 'cross walls, 'cross everything,Describing rings of lantern light. Between the house and barn the galeGot him by something he had onAnd blew him out on the icy crustThat cased the world, and he was gone! Walls were all buried, trees were few:He saw no stay unless he stoveA hole in somewhere with his heel.But though repeatedly he strove And stamped and said things to himself,And sometimes something seemed to yield,He gained no foothold, but pursuedHis journey down from field to field. Sometimes he came with arms outspreadLike wings, revolving in the sceneUpon his longer axis, andWith no small dignity of mien. Faster or slower as he chanced,Sitting or standing as he chose,According as he feared to riskHis neck, or thought to spare his clothes, He never let the lantern drop.And some exclaimed who saw afarThe figures he described with it,&quot;I wonder what those signals are Brown makes at such an hour of night!He's celebrating something strange.I wonder if he's sold his farm,Or been made Master of the Grange.&quot; He reeled, he lurched, he bobbed, he checked;He fell and made the lantern rattle(But saved the light from going out.)So half-way down he fought the battle Incredulous of his own bad luck.And then becoming reconciledTo everything, he gave it upAnd came down like a coasting child. &quot;Well—I—be—&quot; that was all he said,As standing in the river road,He looked back up the slippery slope(Two miles it was) to his abode. Sometimes as an authorityOn motor-cars, I'm asked if IShould say our stock was petered out,And this is my sincere reply: Yankees are what they always were.Don't think Brown ever gave up hopeOf getting home again becauseHe couldn't climb that slippery slope; Or even thought of standing thereUntil the January thawShould take the polish off the crust.He bowed with grace to natural law, And then went round it on his feet,After the manner of our stock;Not much concerned for those to whom,At that particular time o'clock, It must have looked as if the courseHe steered was really straight awayFrom that which he was headed for—Not much concerned for them, I say: No more so than became a man—And politician at odd seasons.I've kept Brown standing in the coldWhile I invested him with reasons; But now he snapped his eyes three times;Then shook his lantern, saying, &quot;Ile's'Bout out!&quot; and took the long way homeBy road, a matter of several miles. But Outer Space But outer Space,At least this far,For all the fussOf the populaceStays more popularThan populous Canis Major The great OverdogThat heavenly beastWith a star in one eyeGives a leap in the east.He dances uprightAll the way to the westAnd never once dropsOn his forefeet to rest.I'm a poor underdog,But to-night I will barkWith the great OverdogThat romps through the dark. Carpe Diem Age saw two quiet childrenGo loving by at twilight,He knew not whether homeward,Or outward from the village,Or (chimes were ringing) churchward,He waited, (they were strangers)Till they were out of hearingTo bid them both be happy.'Be happy, happy, happy,And seize the day of pleasure.'The age-long theme is Age's.'Twas Age imposed on poemsTheir gather-roses burdenTo warn against the dangerThat overtaken loversFrom being overfloodedWith happiness should have it.And yet not know they have it.But bid life seize the present?It lives less in the presentThan in the future always,And less in both togetherThan in the past. The presentIs too much for the senses,Too crowding, too confusing-Too present to imagine.Come In As I came to the edge of the woods,Thrush music -- hark!Now if it was dusk outside,Inside it was dark. Too dark in the woods for a birdBy sleight of wingTo better its perch for the night,Though it still could sing. The last of the light of the sunThat had died in the westStill lived for one song moreIn a thrush's breast. Far in the pillared darkThrush music went --Almost like a call to come inTo the dark and lament. But no, I was out for stars;I would not come in.I meant not even if asked;And I hadn't been. Departmental An ant on the tableclothRan into a dormant mothOf many times his size.He showed not the least surprise.His business wasn't with such.He gave it scarcely a touch,And was off on his duty run.Yet if he encountered oneOf the hive's enquiry squadWhose work is to find out GodAnd the nature of time and space,He would put him onto the case.Ants are a curious race;One crossing with hurried treadThe body of one of their deadIsn't given a moment's arrest-Seems not even impressed.But he no doubt reports to anyWith whom he crosses antennae,And they no doubt reportTo the higher-up at court.Then word goes forth in Formic:'Death's come to Jerry McCormic,Our selfless forager Jerry.Will the special JanizaryWhose office it is to buryThe dead of the commissaryGo bring him home to his people.Lay him in state on a sepal.Wrap him for shroud in a petal.Embalm him with ichor of nettle.This is the word of your Queen.'And presently on the sceneAppears a solemn mortician;And taking formal position,With feelers calmly atwiddle,Seizes the dead by the middle,And heaving him high in air,Carries him out of there.No one stands round to stare.It is nobody else's affairIt couldn't be called ungentleBut how thoroughly departmental Desert Places Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fastIn a field I looked into going past,And the ground almost covered smooth in snow,But a few weeds and stubble showing last. The woods around it have it - it is theirs.All animals are smothered in their lairs.I am too absent-spirited to count;The loneliness includes me unawares. And lonely as it is, that lonelinessWill be more lonely ere it will be less -A blanker whiteness of benighted snowWIth no expression, nothing to express. They cannot scare me with their empty spacesBetween stars - on stars where no human race is.I have it in me so much nearer homeTo scare myself with my own desert places. Design I found a dimpled spider, fat and white,On a white heal-all, holding up a mothLike a white piece of rigid satin cloth --Assorted characters of death and blightMixed ready to begin the morning right,Like the ingredients of a witches' broth --A snow-drop spider, a flower like a froth,And dead wings carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white,The wayside blue and innocent heal-all?What brought the kindred spider to that height,Then steered the white moth thither in the night?What but design of darkness to appall?--If design govern in a thing so small. Devotion The heart can think of no devotionGreater than being shore to ocean -Holding the curve of one position,Counting an endless repetition. Directive Back out of all this now too much for us,Back in a time made simple by the lossOf detail, burned, dissolved, and broken offLike graveyard marble sculpture in the weather,There is a house that is no more a houseUpon a farm that is no more a farmAnd in a town that is no more a town.The road there, if you'll let a guide direct youWho only has at heart your getting lost,May seem as if it should have been a quarry -Great monolithic knees the former townLong since gave up pretense of keeping covered.And there's a story in a book about it:Besides the wear of iron wagon wheelsThe ledges show lines ruled southeast-northwest,The chisel work of an enormous GlacierThat braced his feet against the Arctic Pole.You must not mind a certain coolness from himStill said to haunt this side of Panther Mountain.Nor need you mind the serial ordealOf being watched from forty cellar holesAs if by eye pairs out of forty firkins.As for the woods' excitement over youThat sends light rustle rushes to their leaves,Charge that to upstart inexperience.Where were they all not twenty years ago?They think too much of having shaded outA few old pecker-fretted apple trees.Make yourself up a cheering song of howSomeone's road home from work this once was,Who may be just ahead of you on footOr creaking with a buggy load of grain.The height of the adventure is the heightOf country where two village cultures fadedInto each other. Both of them are lost.And if you're lost enough to find yourselfBy now, pull in your ladder road behind youAnd put a sign up CLOSED to all but me.Then make yourself at home. The only fieldNow left's no bigger than a harness gall.First there's the children's house of make-believe,Some shattered dishes underneath a pine,The playthings in the playhouse of the children.Weep for what little things could make them glad.Then for the house that is no more a house,But only a belilaced cellar hole,Now slowly closing like a dent in dough.This was no playhouse but a house in earnest.Your destination and your destiny'sA brook that was the water of the house,Cold as a spring as yet so near its source,Too lofty and original to rage.(We know the valley streams that when arousedWill leave their tatters hung on barb and thorn.)I have kept hidden in the instep archOf an old cedar at the watersideA broken drinking goblet like the GrailUnder a spell so the wrong ones can't find it,So can't get saved, as Saint Mark says they mustn't.(I stole the goblet from the children's playhouse.)Here are your waters and your watering place.Drink and be whole again beyond confusion. Dust in the Eyes If, as they say, some dust thrown in my eyesWill keep my talk from getting overwise,I'm not the one for putting off the proof.Let it be overwhelming, off a roofAnd round a corner, blizzard snow for dust,And blind me to a standstill if it must. Dust Of Snow The way a crowShook down on meThe dust of snowFrom a hemlock tree Has given my heartA change of moodAnd saved some partOf a day I had rued. Evening In A Sugar Orchard From where I lingered in a lull in Marchoutside the sugar-house one night for choice,I called the fireman with a careful voiceAnd bade him leave the pan and stoke the arch:'O fireman, give the fire another stoke,And send more sparks up chimney with the smoke.'I thought a few might tangle, as they did,Among bare maple boughs, and in the rareHill atmosphere not cease to glow,And so be added to the moon up there.The moon, though slight, was moon enough to showOn every tree a bucket with a lid,And on black ground a bear-skin rug of snow.The sparks made no attempt to be the moon.They were content to figure in the treesAs Leo, Orion, and the Pleiades.And that was what the boughs were full of soon. Fire And Ice Some say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I've tasted of desireI hold with those who favor fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice. Fireflies In The Garden Here come real stars to fill the upper skies,And here on earth come emulating flies,That though they never equal stars in size,(And they were never really stars at heart)Achieve at times a very star-like start.Only, of course, they can't sustain the part. Flower-Gathering I left you in the morning,And in the morning glow,You walked a way beside meTo make me sad to go.Do you know me in the gloaming,Gaunt and dusty gray with roaming?Are you dumb because you know me not,Or dumb because you know? All for me And not a questionFor the faded flowers gayThat could take me from beside youFor the ages of a day?They are yours, and be the measureOf their worth for you to treasure,The measure of the little whileThat I've been long away. For Once, Then, Something Others taught me with having knelt at well-curbsAlways wrong to the light, so never seeingDeeper down in the well than where the waterGives me back in a shining surface pictureMe myself in the summer heaven godlikeLooking out of a wreath of fern and cloud puffs.Once, when trying with chin against a well-curb,I discerned, as I thought, beyond the picture,Through the picture, a something white, uncertain,Something more of the depths--and then I lost it.Water came to rebuke the too clear water.One drop fell from a fern, and lo, a rippleShook whatever it was lay there at bottom,Blurred it, blotted it out. What was that whiteness?Truth? A pebble of quartz? For once, then, something. Fragmentary Blue Why make so much of fragmentary blueIn here and there a bird, or butterfly,Or flower, or wearing-stone, or open eye,When heaven presents in sheets the solid hue? Since earth is earth, perhaps, not heaven (as yet)--Though some savants make earth include the sky;And blue so far above us comes so high,It only gives our wish for blue a whet. Gathering Leaves Spades take up leavesNo better than spoons,And bags full of leavesAre light as balloons. I make a great noiseOf rustling all dayLike rabbit and deerRunning away. But the mountains I raiseElude my embrace,Flowing over my armsAnd into my face. I may load and unloadAgain and againTill I fill the whole shed,And what have I then? Next to nothing for weight,And since they grew dullerFrom contact with earth,Next to nothing for color. Next to nothing for use.But a crop is a crop,And who's to say whereThe harvest shall stop? Ghost House I dwell in a lonely house I knowThat vanished many a summer ago,And left no trace but the cellar walls,And a cellar in which the daylight falls,And the purple-stemmed wild raspberries grow. O'er ruined fences the grape-vines shieldThe woods come back to the mowing field;The orchard tree has grown one copseOf new wood and old where the woodpecker chops;The footpath down to the well is healed. I dwell with a strangely aching heartIn that vanished abode there far apartOn that disused and forgotten roadThat has no dust-bath now for the toad.Night comes; the black bats tumble and dart; The whippoorwill is coming to shoutAnd hush and cluck and flutter about:I hear him begin far enough awayFull many a time to say his sayBefore he arrives to say it out. It is under the small, dim, summer star.I know not who these mute folk areWho share the unlit place with me--Those stones out under the low-limbed treeDoubtless bear names that the mosses mar. They are tireless folk, but slow and sad,Though two, close-keeping, are lass and lad,--With none among them that ever sings,And yet, in view of how many things,As sweet companions as might be had. God's Garden God made a beatous gardenWith lovely flowers strown,But one straight, narrow pathwayThat was not overgrown.And to this beauteous gardenHe brought mankind to live,And said: 'To you, my children,These lovely flowers I give.Prune ye my vines and fig trees,With care my flowerets tend,But keep the pathway openYour home is at the end.' Then came another master,Who did not love mankind,And planted on the pathwayGold flowers for them to find.And mankind saw the bright flowers,That, glitt'ring in the sun,Quite hid the thorns of av'riceThat poison blood and bone;And far off many wandered,And when life's night came on,They still were seeking gold flowers,Lost, helpless and alone.  O, cease to heed the glamourThat blinds your foolish eyes,Look upward to the glitterOf stars in God's clear skies.Their ways are pure and harmlessAnd will not lead astray,Bid aid your erring footstepsTo keep the narrow way.And when the sun shines brightlyTend flowers that God has givenAnd keep the pathway openThat leads you on to heaven. Going For Water The well was dry beside the door,And so we went with pail and canAcross the fields behind the houseTo seek the brook if still it ran;Not loth to have excuse to go,Because the autumn eve was fair(Though chill), because the fields were ours,And by the brook our woods were there. We ran as if to meet the moonThat slowly dawned behind the trees,The barren boughs without the leaves,Without the birds, without the breeze. But once within the wood, we pausedLike gnomes that hid us from the moon,Ready to run to hiding newWith laughter when she found us soon. Each laid on other a staying handTo listen ere we dared to look,And in the hush we joined to makeWe heard, we knew we heard the brook. A note as from a single place,A slender tinkling fall that madeNow drops that floated on the poolLike pearls, and now a silver blade. Good Hours I had for my winter evening walk-No one at all with whom to talk,But I had the cottages in a rowUp to their shining eyes in snow. And I thought I had the folk within:I had the sound of a violin;I had a glimpse through curtain lacesOf youthful forms and youthful faces. I had such company outward bound.I went till there were no cottages found.I turned and repented, but coming backI saw no window but that was black. Over the snow my creaking feetDisturbed the slumbering village streetLike profanation, by your leave,At ten o'clock of a winter eve. Good-Bye, And Keep Cold This saying good-bye on the edge of the darkAnd cold to an orchard so young in the barkReminds me of all that can happen to harmAn orchard away at the end of the farmAll winter, cut off by a hill from the house.I don't want it girdled by rabbit and mouse,I don't want it dreamily nibbled for browseBy deer, and I don't want it budded by grouse.(If certain it wouldn't be idle to callI'd summon grouse, rabbit, and deer to the wallAnd warn them away with a stick for a gun.)I don't want it stirred by the heat of the sun.(We made it secure against being, I hope,By setting it out on a northerly slope.)No orchard's the worse for the wintriest storm;But one thing about it, it mustn't get warm."How often already you've had to be told,Keep cold, young orchard. Good-bye and keep cold.Dread fifty above more than fifty below."I have to be gone for a season or so.My business awhile is with different trees,Less carefully nourished, less fruitful than these,And such as is done to their wood with an axe--Maples and birches and tamaracks.I wish I could promise to lie in the nightAnd think of an orchard's arboreal plightWhen slowly (and nobody comes with a light)Its heart sinks lower under the sod.But something has to be left to God. Hannibal Was there even a cause too lost,Ever a cause that was lost too long,Or that showed with the lapse of time to vainFor the generous tears of youth and song? Hyla Brook By June our brook's run out of song and speed.Sought for much after that, it will be foundEither to have gone groping underground(And taken with it all the Hyla breedThat shouted in the mist a month ago,Like ghost of sleigh-bells in a ghost of snow)--Or flourished and come up in jewel-weed,Weak foliage that is blown upon and bentEven against the way its waters went.Its bed is left a faded paper sheetOf dead leaves stuck together by the heat--A brook to none but who remember long.This as it will be seen is other farThan with brooks taken otherwhere in song.We love the things we love for what they are. I Will Sing You One-O It was long I layAwake that nightWishing that nightWould name the hourAnd tell me whetherTo call it day(Though not yet light)And give up sleep.The snow fell deepWith the hiss of spray;Two winds would meet,One down one street,One down another,And fight in a smotherOf dust and feather.I could not say,But feared the coldHad checked the paceOf the tower clockBy tying togetherIts hands of goldBefore its face. Then cane one knock!A note unruffledOf earthly weather,Though strange and muffled.The tower said, 'One!'And then a steeple.They spoke to themselvesAnd such few peopleAs winds might rouseFrom sleeping warm(But not unhouse).They left the stormThat struck en masseMy window glassLike a beaded fur.In that grave OneThey spoke of the sunAnd moon and stars,Saturn and MarsAnd Jupiter.Still more unfettered,They left the namedAnd spoke of the lettered,The sigmas and tausOf constellations.They filled their throatsWith the furthest bodiesTo which man sends hisSpeculation,Beyond which God is;The cosmic motesOf yawning lenses.Their solemn pealsWere not their own:They spoke for the clockWith whose vast wheelsTheirs interlock.In that grave wordUttered aloneThe utmost starTrembled and stirred,Though set so farIts whirling frenziesAppear like standingin one self station.It has not ranged,And save for the wonderOf once expandingTo be a nova,It has not changedTo the eye of manOn planets overAround and underIt in creationSince man beganTo drag down manAnd nation nation. Immigrants No ship of all that under sail or steamHave gathered people to us more and moreBut Pilgrim-manned the Mayflower in a dreamHas been her anxious convoy in to shore. In A Disused Graveyard The living come with grassy treadTo read the gravestones on the hill;The graveyard draws the living still,But never anymore the dead.The verses in it say and say:"The ones who living come todayTo read the stones and go awayTomorrow dead will come to stay."So sure of death the marbles rhyme,Yet can't help marking all the timeHow no one dead will seem to come.What is it men are shrinking from?It would be easy to be cleverAnd tell the stones: Men hate to dieAnd have stopped dying now forever.I think they would believe the lie. In A Poem The sentencing goes blithely on its wayAnd takes the playfully objected rhymeAs surely as it takes the stroke and timeIn having its undeviable say. In A Vale When I was young, we dwelt in a valeBy a misty fen that rang all night,And thus it was the maidens paleI knew so well, whose garments trailAcross the reeds to a window light.The fen had every kind of bloom,And for every kind there was a face,And a voice that has sounded in my roomAcross the sill from the outer gloom.Each came singly unto her place,But all came every night with the mist;And often they brought so much to sayOf things of moment to which, they wist,One so lonely was fain to list,That the stars were almost faded awayBefore the last went, heavy with dew,Back to the place from which she came-Where the bird was before it flew,Where the flower was before it grew,Where bird and flower were one and the same.And thus it is I know so wellWhy the flower has odor, the bird has song.You have only to ask me, and I can tell.No, not vainly there did I dwell,Nor vainly listen all the night long. In Hardwood Groves The same leaves over and over again!They fall from giving shade aboveTo make one texture of faded brownAnd fit the earth like a leather glove. Before the leaves can mount againTo fill the trees with another shade,They must go down past things coming up.They must go down into the dark decayed. They must be pierced by flowers and putBeneath the feet of dancing flowers.However it is in some other worldI know that this is way in ours. In Neglect They leave us so to the way we took, As two in whom them were provedmistaken, That we sit sometimes in the wayside nook, With michievous, vagrant,seraphic look, And try if we cannot feel forsaken. In White A dented spider like a snow drop whiteOn a white Heal-all, holding up a mothLike a white piece of lifeless satin cloth -Saw ever curious eye so strange a sight? -Portent in little, assorted death and blightLike the ingredients of a witches' broth? -The beady spider, the flower like a froth,And the moth carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white,The blue prunella every child's delight.What brought the kindred spider to that height?(Make we no thesis of the miller's plight.)What but design of darkness and of night?Design, design! Do I use the word aright? Into My Own One of my wishes is that those dark trees,So old and firm they scarcely show the breeze,Were not, as 'twere, the merest mask of gloom,But stretched away unto the edge of doom. I should not be withheld but that some dayinto their vastness I should steal away,Fearless of ever finding open land,or highway where the slow wheel pours the sand. I do not see why I should e'er turn back,Or those should not set forth upon my trackTo overtake me, who should miss me hereAnd long to know if still I held them dear. They would not find me changed from him they knew--Only more sure of all I though was true. Iota Subscript Seek not in me the big I capital,Not yet the little dotted in me seek.If I have in me any I at all,'Tis the iota subscript of the Greek.So small am I as an attention beggar.The letter you will find me subscript toIs neither alpha, eta, nor omega,But upsilon which is the Greek for you. Iris By Night One misty evening, one another's guide,We two were groping down a Malvern sideThe last wet fields and dripping hedges home.There came a moment of confusing lights,Such as according to belief in RomeWere seen of old at Memphis on the heightsBefore the fragments of a former sunCould concentrate anew and rise as one.Light was a paste of pigment in our eyes.And then there was a moon and then a sceneSo watery as to seem submarine;In which we two stood saturated, drowned.The clover-mingled rowan on the groundHad taken all the water it could as dew,And still the air was saturated too,Its airy pressure turned to water weight.Then a small rainbow like a trellis gate,A very small moon-made prismatic bow,Stood closely over us through which to go.And then we were vouchsafed a miracleThat never yet to other two befellAnd I alone of us have lived to tell.A wonder! Bow and rainbow as it bent,Instead of moving with us as we went(To keep the pots of gold from being found),It lifted from its dewy pedimentIts two mote-swimming many-colored endsAnd gathered them together in a ring.And we stood in it softly circled roundFrom all division time or foe can bringIn a relation of elected friends. Leaves Compared With Flowers A tree's leaves may be ever so good,So may its bar, so may its wood;But unless you put the right thing to its rootIt never will show much flower or fruit. But I may be one who does not careEver to have tree bloom or bear.Leaves for smooth and bark for rough,Leaves and bark may be tree enough. Some giant trees have bloom so smallThey might as well have none at all.Late in life I have come on fern.Now lichens are due to have their turn. I bade men tell me which in brief,Which is fairer, flower or leaf.They did not have the wit to say,Leaves by night and flowers by day. Leaves and bar, leaves and bark,To lean against and hear in the dark.Petals I may have once pursued.Leaves are all my darker mood. Locked Out As told to a child  When we locked up the house at night,We always locked the flowers outsideAnd cut them off from window light.The time I dreamed the door was triedAnd brushed with buttons upon sleeves,The flowers were out there with the thieves.Yet nobody molested them!We did find one nasturtiumUpon the steps with bitten stem.I may have been to blame for that:I always thought it must have beenSome Hower I played with as I satAt dusk to watch the moon down early. Lodged The rain to the wind said,'You push and I'll pelt.'They so smote the garden bedThat the flowers actually knelt,And lay lodged -  though not dead.I know how the flowers felt. Looking for a Sunset Bird in Winter The west was getting out of gold,The breath of air had died of cold,When shoeing home across the white,I thought I saw a bird alight. In summer when I passed the placeI had to stop and lift my face;A bird with an angelic giftWas singing in it sweet and swift. No bird was singing in it now.A single leaf was on a bough,And that was all there was to seeIn going twice around the tree. From my advantage on a hillI judged that such a crystal chillWas only adding frost to snowAs gilt to gold that wouldn't show. A brush had left a crooked strokeOf what was either cloud or smokeFrom north to south across the blue;A piercing little star was through. Love And A Question A stranger came to the door at eve,And he spoke the bridegroom fair.He bore a green-white stick in his hand,And, for all burden, care.He asked with the eyes more than the lipsFor a shelter for the night,And he turned and looked at the road afarWithout a window light. The bridegroom came forth into the porchWith, 'Let us look at the sky,And question what of the night to be,Stranger, you and I.'The woodbine leaves littered the yard,The woodbine berries were blue,Autumn, yes, winter was in the wind;'Stranger, I wish I knew.' Within, the bride in the dusk aloneBent over the open fire,Her face rose-red with the glowing coalAnd the thought of the heart's desire. The bridegroom looked at the weary road,Yet saw but her within,And wished her heart in a case of goldAnd pinned with a silver pin. The bridegroom thought it little to giveA dole of bread, a purse,A heartfelt prayer for the poor of God,Or for the rich a curse; But whether or not a man was askedTo mar the love of twoBy harboring woe in the bridal house,The bridegroom wished he knew. Meeting And Passing As I went down the hill along the wallThere was a gate I had leaned at for the viewAnd had just turned from when I first saw youAs you came up the hill. We met. But allWe did that day was mingle great and smallFootprints in summer dust as if we drewThe figure of our being less than twoBut more than one as yet. Your parasolPointed the decimal off with one deep thrust.And all the time we talked you seemed to seeSomething down there to smile at in the dust.(Oh, it was without prejudice to me!)Afterward I went past what you had passedBefore we met and you what I had passed.  Misgiving All crying, 'We will go with you, O Wind!'The foliage follow him, leaf and stem;But a sleep oppresses them as they go,And they end by bidding them as they go,And they end by bidding him stay with them. Since ever they flung abroad in springThe leaves had promised themselves this flight,Who now would fain seek sheltering wall,Or thicket, or hollow place for the night. And now they answer his summoning blastWith an ever vaguer and vaguer stir,Or at utmost a little reluctant whirlThat drops them no further than where they were. I only hope that when I am freeAs they are free to go in questOf the knowledge beyond the bounds of lifeIt may not seem better to me to rest. Mowing There was never a sound beside the wood but one,And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.What was it it whispered? I knew not well myself;Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun,Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--And that was why it whispered and did not speak.It was no dream of the gift of idle hours,Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf:Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weakTo the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers(Pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake.The fact is the sweetest dream that labour knows.My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make. My Butterfly Thine emulous fond flowers are dead, too,And the daft sun-assaulter, heThat frighted thee so oft, is fled or dead:Save only me(Nor is it sad to thee!) Save only meThere is none left to mourn thee in the fields.The gray grass is not dappled with the snow;Its two banks have not shut upon the river;But it is long ago-It seems forever-Since first I saw thee glance,With all the dazzling other ones,In airy dalliance,Precipitate in love,Tossed, tangled, whirled and whirled above,Like a limp rose-wreath in a fairy dance.When that was, the soft mistOf my regret hung not on all the land,And I was glad for thee,And glad for me, I wist.Thou didst not know, who tottered, wandering on high,That fate had made thee for the pleasure of the wind,With those great careless wings,Nor yet did I.And there were other things:It seemed God let thee flutter from his gentle clasp:Then fearful he had let thee winToo far beyond him to be gathered in,Snatched thee, o'er eager, with ungentle grasp.Ah! I remember meHow once conspiracy was rifeAgainst my life-The languor of it and the dreaming fond;Surging, the grasses dizzied me of thought,The breeze three odors brought,And a gem-flower waved in a wand!Then when I was distraughtAnd could not speak,Sidelong, full on my cheek,What should that reckless zephyr flingBut the wild touch of thy dye-dusty wing!I found that wing broken to-day!For thou are dead, I said,And the strange birds say.I found it with the withered leavesUnder the eaves. My November Guest My Sorrow, when she's here with me,Thinks these dark days of autumn rainAre beautiful as days can be;She loves the bare, the withered tree;She walks the sodden pasture lane. Her pleasure will not let me stay.She talks and I am fain to list:She's glad the birds are gone away,She's glad her simple worsted greyIs silver now with clinging mist. The desolate, deserted trees,The faded earth, the heavy sky,The beauties she so truly sees,She thinks I have no eye for these,And vexes me for reason why. Not yesterday I learned to knowThe love of bare November daysBefore the coming of the snow,But it were vain to tell her so,And they are better for her praise Neither Out Far Nor In Deep The people along the sandAll turn and look one way.They turn their back on the land.They look at the sea all day. As long as it takes to passA ship keeps raising its hull;The wetter ground like glassReflects a standing gull The land may vary more;But wherever the truth may be-The water comes ashore,And the people look at the sea. They cannot look out far.They cannot look in deep.But when was that ever a barTo any watch they keep? Never Again Would Bird's Song Be The Same He would declare and could himself believeThat the birds there in all the garden roundFrom having heard the daylong voice of EveHad added to their own an oversound,Her tone of meaning but without the words.Admittedly an eloquence so softCould only have had an influence on birdsWhen call or laughter carried it aloft.Be that as may be, she was in their song.Moreover her voice upon their voices crossedHad now persisted in the woods so longThat probably it never would be lost.Never again would birds' song be the same.And to do that to birds was why she came.  Not To Keep They sent him back to her. The letter cameSaying... And she could have him. And beforeShe could be sure there was no hidden illUnder the formal writing, he was in her sight,Living. They gave him back to her aliveHow else? They are not known to send the deadAnd not disfigured visibly. His face?His hands? She had to look, and ask,"What was it, dear?" And she had given allAnd still she had all they had they the lucky!Wasn’t she glad now? Everything seemed won,And all the rest for them permissible ease.She had to ask, "What was it, dear?" "Enough,"Yet not enough. A bullet through and through,High in the breast. Nothing but what good careAnd medicine and rest, and you a week,Can cure me of to go again." The sameGrim giving to do over for them both.She dared no more than ask him with her eyesHow was it with him for a second trial.And with his eyes he asked her not to ask.They had given him back to her, but not to keep.  Now Close The Windows Now close the windows and hush all the fields:If the trees must, let them silently toss;No bird is singing now, and if there is,Be it my loss. It will be long ere the marshes resume,I will be long ere the earliest bird:So close the windows and not hear the wind,But see all wind-stirred. October O hushed October morning mild,Thy leaves have ripened to the fall;Tomorrow's wind, if it be wild,Should waste them all.The crows above the forest call;Tomorrow they may form and go.O hushed October morning mild,Begin the hours of this day slow.Make the day seem to us less brief.Hearts not averse to being beguiled,Beguile us in the way you know.Release one leaf at break of day;At noon release another leaf;One from our trees, one far away.Retard the sun with gentle mist;Enchant the land with amethyst.Slow, slow!For the grapes' sake, if the were all,Whose elaves already are burnt with frost,Whose clustered fruit must else be lost—For the grapes' sake along the all. On a Tree Fallen Across the Road (To hear us talk) The tree the tempest with a crash of woodThrows down in front of us is not barOur passage to our journey's end for good,But just to ask us who we think we are Insisting always on our own way so.She likes to halt us in our runner tracks,And make us get down in a foot of snowDebating what to do without an ax. And yet she knows obstruction is in vain:We will not be put off the final goalWe have it hidden in us to attain,Not though we have to seize earth by the pole And, tired of aimless circling in one place,Steer straight off after something into space. On Looking Up By Chance At The Constellations You'll wait a long, long time for anything muchTo happen in heaven beyond the floats of cloudAnd the Northern Lights that run like tingling nerves.The sun and moon get crossed, but they never touch,Nor strike out fire from each other nor crash out loud.The planets seem to interfere in their curves -But nothing ever happens, no harm is done.We may as well go patiently on with our life,And look elsewhere than to stars and moon and sunFor the shocks and changes we need to keep us sane.It is true the longest drout will end in rain,The longest peace in China will end in strife.Still it wouldn't reward the watcher to stay awakeIn hopes of seeing the calm of heaven breakOn his particular time and personal sight.That calm seems certainly safe to last to-night. Once By The Pacific The shattered water made a misty din.Great waves looked over others coming in,And thought of doing something to the shoreThat water never did to land before.The clouds were low and hairy in the skies,Like locks blown forward in the gleam of eyes.You could not tell, and yet it looked as ifThe shore was lucky in being backed by cliff,The cliff in being backed by continent;It looked as if a night of dark intentWas coming, and not only a night, an age.Someone had better be prepared for rage.There would be more than ocean-water brokenBefore God's last Put out the light was spoken. Out, Out The buzz-saw snarled and rattled in the yardAnd made dust and dropped stove-length sticks of wood,Sweet-scented stuff when the breeze drew across it.And from there those that lifted eyes could countFive mountain ranges one behind the otherUnder the sunset far into Vermont.And the saw snarled and rattled, snarled and rattled,As it ran light, or had to bear a load.And nothing happened: day was all but done.Call it a day, I wish they might have saidTo please the boy by giving him the half hourThat a boy counts so much when saved from work.His sister stood beside them in her apronTo tell them "Supper." At that word, the saw,As if to prove saws knew what supper meant,Leaped out at the boy's hand, or seemed to leap -He must have given the hand. However it was,Neither refused the meeting. But the hand!The boy's first outcry was a rueful laugh,As he swung toward them holding up the handHalf in appeal, but half as if to keepThe life from spilling. Then the boy saw all -Since he was old enough to know, big boyDoing a man's work, though a child at heart -He saw all spoiled. "Don't let him cut my hand off -The doctor, when he comes. Don't let him, sister!"So. But the hand was gone already.The doctor put him in the dark of ether.He lay and puffed his lips out with his breath.And then - the watcher at his pulse took fright.No one believed. They listened at his heart.Little - less - nothing! - and that ended it.No more to build on there. And they, since theyWere not the one dead, turned to their affairs. Pan With Us PAN came out of the woods one day,—	His skin and his hair and his eyes were gray,	The gray of the moss of walls were they,—	 And stood in the sun and looked his fill	 At wooded valley and wooded hill.	        He stood in the zephyr, pipes in hand,	On a height of naked pasture land; 	In all the country he did command	 He saw no smoke and he saw no roof.	 That was well! and he stamped a hoof.	        His heart knew peace, for none came here	To this lean feeding save once a year	Someone to salt the half-wild steer,	 Or homespun children with clicking pails	 Who see no little they tell no tales.	        He tossed his pipes, too hard to teach	A new-world song, far out of reach,	For a sylvan sign that the blue jay’s screech	 And the whimper of hawks beside the sun	 Were music enough for him, for one.	       Times were changed from what they were:	Such pipes kept less of power to stir	The fruited bough of the juniper	 And the fragile bluets clustered there	 Than the merest aimless breath of air.	        They were pipes of pagan mirth,	And the world had found new terms of worth.	He laid him down on the sun-burned earth	 And ravelled a flower and looked away—	 Play? Play? —What should he play? Pea Brush I WALKED down alone Sunday after churchTo the place where John has been cutting treesTo see for myself about the birchHe said I could have to bush my peas. The sun in the new-cut narrow gapWas hot enough for the first of May,And stifling hot with the odor of sapFrom stumps still bleeding their life away. The frogs that were peeping a thousand shrillWherever the ground was low and wet,The minute they heard my step went stillTo watch me and see what I came to get. Birch boughs enough piled everywhere!—All fresh and sound from the recent axe.Time someone came with cart and pairAnd got them off the wild flower's backs. They might be good for garden thingsTo curl a little finger round,The same as you seize cat's-cradle strings,And lift themselves up off the ground. Small good to anything growing wild,They were crooking many a trilliumThat had budded before the boughs were piledAnd since it was coming up had to come.Plowmen A plow, they say, to plow the snow.They cannot mean to plant it, no --Unless in bitterness to mockAt having cultivated rock. Provide, Provide The witch that came (the withered hag)To wash the steps with pail and ragWas once the beauty Abishag, The picture pride of Hollywood.Too many fall from great and goodFor you to doubt the likelihood. Die early and avoid the fate.Or if predestined to die late,Make up your mind to die in state. Make the whole stock exchange your own!If need be occupy a throne,Where nobody can call you crone. Some have relied on what they knew,Others on being simply true.What worked for them might work for you. No memory of having starredAtones for later disregardOr keeps the end from being hard. Better to go down dignifiedWith boughten friendship at your sideThan none at all. Provide, provide! Putting In The Seed You come to fetch me from my work to-nightWhen supper's on the table, and we'll seeIf I can leave off burying the whiteSoft petals fallen from the apple tree(Soft petals, yes, but not so barren quite,Mingled with these, smooth bean and wrinkled pea);And go along with you ere you lose sightOf what you came for and become like me,Slave to a Springtime passion for the earth.How Love burns through the Putting in the SeedOn through the watching for that early birthWhen, just as the soil tarnishes with weed,The sturdy seedling with arched body comesShouldering its way and shedding the earth crumbs. Quandary Never have I been glad or sadThat there was such a thing as bad.There had to be, I understood,For there to have been any good.It was by having been contrastedThat good and bad so long had lasted.That's why discrimination reigns.That's why we need a lot of brainsIf only to discriminate'Twixt what to love and what to hate.To quote the oracle at Delphi,Love thy neighbor as thyself, aye,And hate him as thyself thou hatest.There quandary is at its greatest.We learned from the forbidden fruitFor brains there is no substitute.'Unless it's sweetbreads, ' you suggestWith innuendo I detest.You drive me to confess in ink:Once I was fool enough to thinkThat brains and sweetbreads were the same,Till I was caught and put to shame,First by a butcher, then a cook,Then by a scientific book.But ' twas by making sweetbreads doI passed with such a high I.Q. Range-Finding The battle rent a cobweb diamond-strungAnd cut a flower beside a ground bird's nestBefore it stained a single human breast.The stricken flower bent double and so hung.And still the bird revisited her young.A butterfly its fall had dispossessedA moment sought in air his flower of rest,Then lightly stooped to it and fluttering clung. On the bare upland pasture there had spreadO'ernight 'twixt mullein stalks a wheel of threadAnd straining cables wet with silver dew.A sudden passing bullet shook it dry.The indwelling spider ran to greet the fly,But finding nothing, sullenly withdrew. Reluctance Out through the fields and the woods  And over the walls I have wended;I have climbed the hills of view  And looked at the world, and descended;I have come by the highway home,  And lo, it is ended. The leaves are all dead on the ground,  Save those that the oak is keepingTo ravel them one by one  And let them go scraping and creepingOut over the crusted snow,  When others are sleeping. And the dead leaves lie huddled and still,  No longer blown hither and thither;The last lone aster is gone;  The flowers of the witch hazel wither;The heart is still aching to seek,  But the feet question ‘Whither? ’ Ah, when to the heart of man  Was it ever less than a treasonTo go with the drift of things,  To yield with a grace to reason,And bow and accept the end  Of a love or a season? Revelation We make ourselves a place apartBehind light words that tease and flout,But oh, the agitated heartTill someone find us really out. 'Tis pity if the case require(Or so we say) that in the endWe speak the literal to inspireThe understanding of a friend. But so with all, from babes that playAt hide-and-seek to God afar,So all who hide too well awayMust speak and tell us where they are. Riders The surest thing there is is we are riders,And though none too successful at it, guiders,Through everything presented, land and tideAnd now the very air, of what we ride. What is this talked-of mystery of birthBut being mounted bareback on the earth?We can just see the infant up astride,His small fist buried in the bushy hide. There is our wildest mount- a headless horse.But though it runs unbridled off its course,And all our blandishments would seem defied,We have ideas yet that we haven't tried. Rose Pogonias A saturated meadow, Sun-shaped and jewel-small,A circle scarcely wider Than the trees around were tall;Where winds were quite excluded, And the air was stifling sweetWith the breath of many flowers, -- A temple of the heat. There we bowed us in the burning, As the sun's right worship is,To pick where none could miss them A thousand orchises;For though the grass was scattered, yet every second spearSeemed tipped with wings of color, That tinged the atmosphere. We raised a simple prayer Before we left the spot,That in the general mowing That place might be forgot;Or if not all so favored, Obtain such grace of hours,that none should mow the grass there While so confused with flowers. Sand Dunes Sea waves are green and wet,But up from where they die,Rise others vaster yet,And those are brown and dry. They are the sea made landTo come at the fisher town,And bury in solid sandThe men she could not drown. She may know cove and cape,But she does not know mankindIf by any change of shape,She hopes to cut off mind. Men left her a ship to sink:They can leave her a hut as well;And be but more free to thinkFor the one more cast-off shell. Sitting by a Bush in Broad Sunlight When I spread out my hand here today,I catch no more than a rayTo feel of between thumb and fingers;No lasting effect of it lingers. There was one time and only the oneWhen dust really took in the sun;And from that one intake of fireAll creatures still warmly suspire. And if men have watched a long timeAnd never seen sun-smitten slimeAgain come to life and crawl off,We not be too ready to scoff. God once declared he was trueAnd then took the veil and withdrew,And remember how final a hushThen descended of old on the bush. God once spoke to people by name.The sun once imparted its flame.One impulse persists as our breath;The other persists as our faith. Spoils Of The Dead Two fairies it wasOn a still summer dayCame forth in the woodsWith the flowers to play.The flowers they pluckedThey cast on the groundFor others, and thoseFor still others they found.Flower-guided it wasThat they came as they ranOn something that layIn the shape of a man.The snow must have madeThe feathery bedWhen this one fellOn the sleep of the dead.But the snow was goneA long time ago,And the body he woreNigh gone with the snow.The fairies drew nearAnd keenly espiedA ring on his handAnd a chain at his side.They knelt in the leavesAnd eerily playedWith the glittering things,And were not afraid.And when they went homeTo hide in their burrow,They took them alongTo play with to-morrow.When you came on death,Did you not come flower-guidedLike the elves in the wood?I remember that I did.But I recognised deathWith sorrow and dread,And I hated and hateThe spoils of the dead. Spring Pools These pools that, though in forests, still reflectThe total sky almost without defect,And like the flowers beside them, chill and shiver,Will like the flowers beside them soon be gone,And yet not out by any brook or river,But up by roots to bring dark foliage on. The trees that have it in their pent-up budsTo darken nature and be summer woods -Let them think twice before they use their powersTo blot out and drink up and sweep awayThese flowery waters and these watery flowersFrom snow that melted only yesterday. Stars How countlessly they congregateO'er our tumultuous snow,Which flows in shapes as tall as treesWhen wintry winds do blow!-- As if with keenness for our fate,Our faltering few steps onTo white rest, and a place of restInvisible at dawn,-- And yet with neither love nor hate,Those stars like some snow-whiteMinerva's snow-white marble eyesWithout the gift of sight. Stopping By Woods On A Snowy Evening Whose woods these are I think I know.His house is in the village, though;He will not see me stopping hereTo watch his woods fill up with snow. My little horse must think it queerTo stop without a farmhouse nearBetween the woods and frozen lakeThe darkest evening of the year. He gives his harness bells a shakeTo ask if there is some mistake.The only other sound's the sweepOf easy wind and downy flake. The woods are lovely, dark and deep,But I have promises to keep,And miles to go before I sleep,And miles to go before I sleep. Storm Fear When the wind works against us in the dark,And pelts with snowThe lowest chamber window on the east,And whispers with a sort of stifled bark,The beast,'Come out! Come out!'-It costs no inward struggle not to go,Ah, no!I count our strength,Two and a child,Those of us not asleep subdued to markHow the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,-How drifts are piled,Dooryard and road ungraded,Till even the comforting barn grows far awayAnd my heart owns a doubtWhether 'tis in us to arise with dayAnd save ourselves unaided. The Aim Was Song Before man to blow to rightThe wind once blew itself untaught,And did its loudest day and nightIn any rough place where it caught. Man came to tell it what was wrong:It hadn't found the place to blow;It blew too hard - the aim was song.And listen - how it ought to go! He took a little in his mouth,And held it long enough for northTo be converted into south,And then by measure blew it forth. By measure. It was word and note,The wind the wind had meant to be -A little through the lips and throat.The aim was song - the wind could see. The Armful For every parcel I stoop down to seizeI lose some other off my arms and knees,And the whole pile is slipping, bottles, buns --Extremes too hard to comprehend at once,Yet nothing I should care to leave behind.With all I have to hold with hand and mindAnd heart, if need be, I will do my bestTo keep their building balanced at my breast.I crouch down to prevent them as they fall;Then sit down in the middle of them all.I had to drop the armful in the roadAnd try to stack them in a better load. The Bear The bear puts both arms around the tree above herAnd draws it down as if it were a loverAnd its chokecherries lips to kiss good-by,Then lets it snap back upright in the sky.Her next step rocks a boulder on the wall(She's making her cross-country in the fall).Her great weight creaks the barbed wire in its staplesAs she flings over and off down through the maples,Leaving on one wire tooth a lock of hair.Such is the uncaged progress of the bear.The world has room to make a bear feel free;The universe seems cramped to you and me.Man acts more like the poor bear in a cage,That all day fights a nervous inward rage,His mood rejecting all his mind suggests.He paces back and forth and never restsThe me-nail click and shuffle of his feet,The telescope at one end of his beat,And at the other end the microscope,Two instruments of nearly equal hope,And in conjunction giving quite a spread.Or if he rests from scientific tread,'Tis only to sit back and sway his headThrough ninety-odd degrees of arc, it seems,Between two metaphysical extremes.He sits back on his fundamental buttWith lifted snout and eyes (if any) shut(He almost looks religious but he's not),And back and forth he sways from cheek to cheek,At one extreme agreeing with one GreekAt the other agreeing with another GreekWhich may be thought, but only so to speak.A baggy figure, equally patheticWhen sedentary and when peripatetic. The Birthplace Here further up the mountain slopeThan there was every any hope,My father built, enclosed a spring,Strung chains of wall round everything,Subdued the growth of earth to grass,And brought our various lives to pass.A dozen girls and boys we were.The mountain seemed to like the stir,And made of us a little while-With always something in her smile.Today she wouldn't know our name.(No girl's, of course, has stayed the same.)The mountain pushed us off her knees.And now her lap is full of trees. The Cow In Apple-Time Something inspires the only cow of lateTo make no more of a wall than an open gate,And think no more of wall-builders than fools.Her face is flecked with pomace and she droolsA cider syrup. Having tasted fruit,She scorns a pasture withering to the root.She runs from tree to tree where lie and sweeten.The windfalls spiked with stubble and worm-eaten.She leaves them bitten when she has to fly.She bellows on a knoll against the sky.Her udder shrivels and the milk goes dry. The Demiurge's Laugh It was far in the sameness of the wood;I was running with joy on the Demon’s trail,Though I knew what I hunted was no true god.It was just as the light was beginning to failThat I suddenly heard—all I needed to hear:It has lasted me many and many a year. The sound was behind me instead of before,A sleepy sound, but mocking half,As of one who utterly couldn’t care.The Demon arose from his wallow to laugh,Brushing the dirt from his eye as he went;And well I knew what the Demon meant. I shall not forget how his laugh rang out.I felt as a fool to have been so caught,And checked my steps to make pretenceIt was something among the leaves I sought(Though doubtful whether he stayed to see).Thereafter I sat me against a tree. The Door In The Dark In going from room to room in the dark,I reached out blindly to save my face,But neglected, however lightly, to laceMy fingers and close my arms in an arc.A slim door got in past my guard,And hit me a blow in the head so hardI had my native simile jarred.So people and things don't pair any moreWith what they used to pair with before. The Egg and the Machine He gave the solid rail a hateful kick.From far away there came an answering tickAnd then another tick. He knew the code:His hate had roused an engine up the road.He wished when he had had the track aloneHe had attacked it with a club or stoneAnd bent some rail wide open like switchSo as to wreck the engine in the ditch.Too late though, now, he had himself to thank.Its click was rising to a nearer clank.Here it came breasting like a horse in skirts.(He stood well back for fear of scalding squirts.)Then for a moment all there was was sizeConfusion and a roar that drowned the criesHe raised against the gods in the machine.Then once again the sandbank lay serene.The traveler's eye picked up a turtle train,between the dotted feet a streak of tail,And followed it to where he made out vagueBut certain signs of buried turtle's egg;And probing with one finger not too rough,He found suspicious sand, and sure enough,The pocket of a little turtle mine.If there was one egg in it there were nine,Torpedo-like, with shell of gritty leatherAll packed in sand to wait the trump together.'You'd better not disturb any more,'He told the distance, 'I am armed for war.The next machine that has the power to passWill get this plasm in it goggle glass.' The Exposed Nest You were forever finding some new play.So when I saw you down on hands and kneesI the meadow, busy with the new-cut hay,Trying, I thought, to set it up on end,I went to show you how to make it stay,If that was your idea, against the breeze,And, if you asked me, even help pretendTo make it root again and grow afresh.But 'twas no make-believe with you today,Nor was the grass itself your real concern,Though I found your hand full of wilted fern,Steel-bright June-grass, and blackening heads of clovers.'Twas a nest full of young birds on the groundThe cutter-bar had just gone champing over(Miraculously without tasking flesh)And left defenseless to the heat and light.You wanted to restore them to their rightOf something interposed between their sightAnd too much world at once--could means be found.The way the nest-full every time we stirredStood up to us as to a mother-birdWhose coming home has been too long deferred,Made me ask would the mother-bird returnAnd care for them in such a change of sceneAnd might out meddling make her more afraid.That was a thing we could not wait to learn.We saw the risk we took in doing good,But dared not spare to do the best we couldThough harm should come of it; so built the screenYou had begun, and gave them back their shade.All this to prove we cared. Why is there thenNo more to tell? We turned to other things.I haven't any memory--have you?--Of ever coming to the place againTo see if the birds lived the first night through,And so at last to learn to use their wings.  The Flood Blood has been harder to dam back than water.Just when we think we have it impounded safeBehind new barrier walls (and let it chafe!),It breaks away in some new kind of slaughter.We choose to say it is let loose by the devil;But power of blood itself releases blood.It goes by might of being such a floodHeld high at so unnatural a level.It will have outlet, brave and not so brave.weapons of war and implements of peaceAre but the points at which it finds release.And now it is once more the tidal waveThat when it has swept by leaves summits stained.Oh, blood will out. It cannot be contained. The Flower Boat The fisherman's swapping a yarn for a yarnUnder the hand of the village barber,And her in the angle of house and barnHis deep-sea dory has found a harbor. At anchor she rides the sunny sodAs full to the gunnel of flowers growingAs ever she turned her home with codFrom George's bank when winds were blowing. And I judge from that elysian freightThat all they ask is rougher weather,And dory and master will sail by fateTo seek the Happy Isles together. The Freedom Of The Moon I've tried the new moon tilted in the airAbove a hazy tree-and-farmhouse clusterAs you might try a jewel in your hair.I've tried it fine with little breadth of luster,Alone, or in one ornament combiningWith one first-water start almost shining. I put it shining anywhere I please.By walking slowly on some evening later,I've pulled it from a crate of crooked trees,And brought it over glossy water, greater,And dropped it in, and seen the image wallow,The color run, all sorts of wonder follow. The Gift Outright The land was ours before we were the land's.She was our land more than a hundred yearsBefore we were her people. She was oursIn Massachusetts, in Virginia,But we were England's, still colonials,Possessing what we still were unpossessed by,Possessed by what we now no more possessed.Something we were withholding made us weakUntil we found out that it was ourselvesWe were withholding from our land of living,And forthwith found salvation in surrender.Such as we were we gave ourselves outright(The deed of gift was many deeds of war)To the land vaguely realizing westward,But still unstoried, artless, unenhanced,Such as she was, such as she would become. The Gum-Gatherer There overtook me and drew me inTo his down-hill, early-morning stride,And set me five miles on my roadBetter than if he had had me ride,A man with a swinging bag for'loadAnd half the bag wound round his hand.We talked like barking above the dinOf water we walked along beside.And for my telling him where I'd beenAnd where I lived in mountain landTo be coming home the way I was,He told me a little about himself.He came from higher up in the passWhere the grist of the new-beginning brooksIs blocks split off the mountain mass --And hop. eless grist enough it looksEver to grind to soil for grass.(The way it is will do for moss.)There he had built his stolen shack.It had to be a stolen shackBecause of the fears of fire and logsThat trouble the sleep of lumber folk:Visions of half the world burned blackAnd the sun shrunken yellow in smoke.We know who when they come to townBring berries under the wagon seat,Or a basket of eggs between their feet;What this man brought in a cotton sackWas gum, the gum of the mountain spruce.He showed me lumps of the scented stuffLike uncut jewels, dull and roughIt comes to market golden brown;But turns to pink between the teeth.I told him this is a pleasant lifeTo set your breast to the bark of treesThat all your days are dim beneath,And reaching up with a little knife,To loose the resin and take it downAnd bring it to market when you please  The Impulse It was too lonely for her there,And too wild,And since there were but two of them,And no child, And work was little in the house,She was free,And followed where he furrowed field,Or felled tree. She rested on a log and tossedThe fresh chips,With a song only to herselfOn her lips. And once she went to break a boughOf black alder.She strayed so far she scarcely heardWhen he called her- And didn't answer-didn't speak-Or return.She stood, and then she ran and hidIn the fern. He never found her, though he lookedEverywhere,And he asked at her mother's houseWas she there. Sudden and swift and light as thatThe ties gave,And he learned of finalitiesBesides the grave. The Investment Over back where they speak of life as staying('You couldn't call it living, for it ain't'),There was an old, old house renewed with paint,And in it a piano loudly playing. Out in the plowed ground in the cold a digger,Among unearthed potatoes standing still,Was counting winter dinners, one a hill,With half an ear to the piano's vigor. All that piano and new paint back there,Was it some money suddenly come into?Or some extravagance young love had been to?Or old love on an impulse not to care- Not to sink under being man and wife,But get some color and music out of life? The Kitchen Chimney Builder, in building the little house,In every way you may please yourself;But please please me in the kitchen chimney:Don't build me a chimney upon a shelf. However far you must go for bricks,Whatever they cost a-piece or a pound,But me enough for a full-length chimney,And build the chimney clear from the ground. It's not that I'm greatly afraid of fire,But I never heard of a house that throve(And I know of one that didn't thrive)Where the chimney started above the stove. And I dread the ominous stain of tarThat there always is on the papered walls,And the smell of fire drowned in rainThat there always is when the chimney's false. A shelf's for a clock or vase or picture,But I don't see why it should have to bearA chimney that only would serve to remind meOf castles I used to build in air. The Last Mowing There's a place called Far-away MeadowWe never shall mow in again,Or such is the talk at the farmhouse:The meadow is finished with men.Then now is the chance for the flowersThat can't stand mowers and plowers.It must be now, through, in seasonBefore the not mowing brings trees on,Before trees, seeing the opening,March into a shadowy claim.The trees are all I'm afraid of,That flowers can't bloom in the shade of;It's no more men I'm afraid of;The meadow is done with the tame.The place for the moment is oursFor you, oh tumultuous flowers,To go to waste and go wild in,All shapes and colors of flowers,I needn't call you by name. The Last Word of a Blue Bird As told to a child  As I went out a CrowIn a low voice said, 'Oh,I was looking for you.How do you do?I just came to tell youTo tell Lesley (will you?)That her little BluebirdWanted me to bring wordThat the north wind last nightThat made the stars brightAnd made ice on the troughAlmost made him coughHis tail feathers off.He just had to fly!But he sent her Good-by,And said to be good,And wear her red hood,And look for the skunk tracksIn the snow with an ax-And do everything!And perhaps in the springHe would come back and sing.' The Line-Gang Here come the line-gang pioneering by,They throw a forest down less cut than broken.They plant dead trees for living, and the deadThey string together with a living thread.They string an instrument against the skyWherein words whether beaten out or spokenWill run as hushed as when they were a thoughtBut in no hush they string it: they go pastWith shouts afar to pull the cable taught,To hold it hard until they make it fast,To ease away -- they have it. With a laugh,An oath of towns that set the wild at naughtThey bring the telephone and telegraph. The Lockless Door It went many years,But at last came a knock,And I thought of the doorWith no lock to lock. I blew out the light,I tip-toed the floor,And raised both handsIn prayer to the door. But the knock came againMy window was wide;I climbed on the sillAnd descended outside. Back over the sillI bade a "Come in"To whoever the knockAt the door may have been. So at a knockI emptied my cageTo hide in the worldAnd alter with age. The Master Speed No speed of wind or water rushing byBut you have speed far greater. You can climbBack up a stream of radiance to the sky,And back through history up the stream of time.And you were given this swiftness, not for hasteNor chiefly that you may go where you will,But in the rush of everything to waste,That you may have the power of standing still-Off any still or moving thing you say.Two such as you with such a master speedCannot be parted nor be swept awayFrom one another once you are agreedThat life is only life forevermoreTogether wing to wing and oar to oar The Most Of It He thought he kept the universe alone;For all the voice in answer he could wakeWas but the mocking echo of his ownFrom some tree-hidden cliff across the lake.Some morning from the boulder-broken beachHe would cry out on life, that what it wantsIs not its own love back in copy speech,But counter-love, original response.And nothing ever came of what he criedUnless it was the embodiment that crashedIn the cliff's talus on the other side,And then in the far distant water splashed,But after a time allowed for it to swim,Instead of proving human when it nearedAnd someone else additional to him,As a great buck it powerfully appeared,Pushing the crumpled water up ahead,And landed pouring like a waterfall,And stumbled through the rocks with horny tread,And forced the underbrush—and that was all. The Need Of Being Versed In Country Things The house had gone to bring againTo the midnight sky a sunset glow.Now the chimney was all of the house that stood,Like a pistil after the petals go. The barn opposed across the way,That would have joined the house in flameHad it been the will of the wind, was leftTo bear forsaken the place's name. No more it opened with all one endFor teams that came by the stony roadTo drum on the floor with scurrying hoofsAnd brush the mow with the summer load. The birds that came to it through the airAt broken windows flew out and in,Their murmur more like the sigh we sighFrom too much dwelling on what has been. Yet for them the lilac renewed its leaf,And the aged elm, though touched with fire;And the dry pump flung up an awkward arm;And the fence post carried a strand of wire. For them there was really nothing sad.But though they rejoiced in the nest they kept,One had to be versed in country thingsNot to believe the phoebes wept. The Objection To Being Stepped On At the end of the rowI stepped on the toeOf an unemployed hoe.It rose in offenseAnd struck me a blowIn the seat of my sense.It wasn't to blameBut I called it a name.And I must say it dealtMe a blow that I feltLike a malice prepense.You may call me a fool,But was there a ruleThe weapon should beTurned into a tool?And what do we see?The first tool I step onTurned into a weapon. The Oft-Repeated Dream She had no saying dark enoughFor the dark pine that keptForever trying the window latchOf the room where they slept. The tireless but ineffectual handsThat with every futile passMade the great tree seem as a little birdBefore the mystery of glass! It never had been inside the room,And only one of the twoWas afraid in an oft-repeated dreamOf what the tree might do. The Onset ALWAYS the same, when on a fated nightAt last the gathered snow lets down as whiteAs may be in dark woods, and with a songIt shall not make again all winter longOf hissing on the yet uncovered ground,I almost stumble looking up and round,As one who overtaken by the endGives up his errand, and lets death descendUpon him where he is, with nothing doneTo evil, no important triumph won,More than if life had never been begun. Yet all the precedent is on my side:I know that winter death has never triedThe earth but it has failed: the snow may heapIn long storms an undrifted four feet deepAs measured against maple, birch and oak,It cannot check the peeper's silver croak;And I shall see the snow all go down hillIn water of a slender April rillThat flashes tail through last year's withered brakeAnd dead weeds, like a disappearing snake.Nothing will be left white but here a birch,And there a clump of houses with a church. The Oven Bird There is a singer eveyone has heard,Loud, a mid-summer and a mid-wood bird,Who makes the solid tree trunks sound again.He says that leaves are old and that for flowersMid-summer is to spring as one to ten.He says the early petal-fall is past,When pear and cherry bloom went down in showersOn sunny days a moment overcast;And comes that other fall we name the fall.He says the highway dust is over all.The bird would cease and be as other birdsBut that he knows in singing not to sing.The question that he frames in all but wordsIs what to make of a diminished thing. The Pasture I'm going out to clean the pasture spring;I'll only stop to rake the leaves away(And wait to watch the water clear, I may):I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. I'm going out to fetch the little calfThat's standing by the mother. It's so young,It totters when she licks it with her tongue.I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. The Peaceful Shepherd If heaven were to do again,And on the pasture bars,I leaned to line the figures inBetween the dotted stars, I should be tempted to forget,I fear, the Crown of Rule,The Scales of Trade, the Cross of Faith,As hardly worth renewal. For these have governed in our lives,And see how men have warred.The Cross, the Crown, the Scales may allAs well have been the Sword. The Road Not Taken Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,And sorry I could not travel bothAnd be one traveler, long I stoodAnd looked down one as far as I couldTo where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair,And having perhaps the better claimBecause it was grassy and wanted wear,Though as for that the passing thereHad worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally layIn leaves no step had trodden black.Oh, I kept the first for another day!Yet knowing how way leads on to wayI doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sighSomewhere ages and ages hence:Two roads diverged in a wood, and I,I took the one less traveled by,And that has made all the difference. The Rose Family The rose is a rose,And was always a rose.But the theory now goesThat the apple's a rose,And the pear is, and so'sThe plum, I suppose.The dear only knowsWhat will next prove a rose.You, of course, are a rose -But were always a rose. The Runaway Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall,We stopped by a mountain pasture to say 'Whose colt?'A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall,The other curled at his breast. He dipped his headAnd snorted at us. And then he had to bolt.We heard the miniature thunder where he fled,And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and grey,Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes.'I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow.He isn't winter-broken. It isn't playWith the little fellow at all. He's running away.I doubt if even his mother could tell him, 'Sakes,It's only weather'. He'd think she didn't know !Where is his mother? He can't be out alone.'And now he comes again with a clatter of stoneAnd mounts the wall again with whited eyesAnd all his tail that isn't hair up straight.He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies.'Whoever it is that leaves him out so late,When other creatures have gone to stall and bin,Ought to be told to come and take him in.' The Secret Sits We dance round in a ring and suppose,But the Secret sits in the middle and knows. The Silken Tent She is as in a field a silken tentAt midday when the sunny summer breezeHas dried the dew and all its ropes relent,So that in guys it gently sways at ease,And its supporting central cedar pole,That is its pinnacle to heavenwardAnd signifies the sureness of the soul,Seems to owe naught to any single cord,But strictly held by none, is loosely boundBy countless silken ties of love and thoughtTo every thing on earth the compass round,And only by one's going slightly tautIn the capriciousness of summer airIs of the slightlest bondage made aware. The Soldier He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled,That lies unlifted now, come dew, come rust,But still lies pointed as it ploughed the dust.If we who sight along it round the world,See nothing worthy to have been its mark,It is because like men we look too near,Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere,Our missiles always make too short an arc.They fall, they rip the grass, they intersectThe curve of earth, and striking, break their own;They make us cringe for metal-point on stone.But this we know, the obstacle that checkedAnd tripped the body, shot the spirit onFurther than target ever showed or shone. The Sound Of Trees I wonder about the trees.Why do we wish to bearForever the noise of theseMore than another noiseSo close to our dwelling place?We suffer them by the dayTill we lose all measure of pace,And fixity in our joys,And acquire a listening air.They are that that talks of goingBut never gets away;And that talks no less for knowing,As it grows wiser and older,That now it means to stay.My feet tug at the floorAnd my head sways to my shoulderSometimes when I watch trees sway,From the window or the door.I shall set forth for somewhere,I shall make the reckless choiceSome day when they are in voiceAnd tossing so as to scareThe white clouds over them on.I shall have less to say,But I shall be gone. The Span Of Life The old dog barks backwards without getting up.I can remember when he was a pup.  Anonymous submission.The Vanishing Red He is said to have been the last Red manIn Action. And the Miller is said to have laughed--If you like to call such a sound a laugh.But he gave no one else a laugher's license.For he turned suddenly grave as if to say,'Whose business,--if I take it on myself,Whose business--but why talk round the barn?--When it's just that I hold with getting a thing done with.'You can't get back and see it as he saw it.It's too long a story to go into now.You'd have to have been there and lived it.They you wouldn't have looked on it as just a matterOf who began it between the two races. Some guttural exclamation of surpriseThe Red man gave in poking about the millOver the great big thumping shuffling millstoneDisgusted the Miller physically as comingFrom one who had no right to be heard from.'Come, John,' he said, 'you want to see the wheel-pint?' He took him down below a cramping rafter,And showed him, through a manhole in the floor,The water in desperate straits like frantic fish,Salmon and sturgeon, lashing with their tails.The he shut down the trap door with a ring in itThat jangled even above the general noise,And came upstairs alone--and gave that laugh,And said something to a man with a meal-sackThat the man with the meal-sack didn't catch--then.Oh, yes, he showed John the wheel-pit all right. The Vantage Point If tires of trees I seek again mankind, Well I know where to hie me--in the dawn,To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn. There amid loggin juniper reclined,Myself unseen, I see in white defined Far off the homes of men, and farther still,The graves of men on an opposing hill, Living or dead, whichever are to mind.And if by noon I have too much of these, I have but to turn on my arm, and lo,The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow, My breathing shakes the bluet like abreeze, I smell the earth, I smell the bruis&egrave;d plant, I look into the craterof the ant. The Wood-Pile Out walking in the frozen swamp one gray day,I paused and said, "I will turn back from here.No, I will go on farther -- and we shall see."The hard snow held me, save where now and thenOne foot went through. The view was all in linesStraight up and down of tall slim treesToo much alike to mark or name a place bySo as to say for certain I was hereOr somewhere else: I was just far from home.A small bird flew before me. He was carefulTo put a tree between us when he lighted,And say no word to tell me who he wasWho was so foolish as to think what he thought.He thought that I was after him for a feather --The white one in his tail; like one who takesEverything said as personal to himself.One flight out sideways would have undeceived him.And then there was a pile of wood for whichI forgot him and let his little fearCarry him off the way I might have gone,Without so much as wishing him good-night.He went behind it to make his last stand.It was a cord of maple, cut and splitAnd piled -- and measured, four by four by eight.And not another like it could I see.No runner tracks in this year's snow looped near it.And it was older sure than this year's cutting,Or even last year's or the year's before.The wood was gray and the bark warping off itAnd the pile somewhat sunken. ClematisHad wound strings round and round it like a bundle.What held it though on one side was a treeStill growing, and on one a stake and prop,These latter about to fall. I thought that onlySomeone who lived in turning to fresh tasksCould so forget his handiwork on whichHe spent himself, the labor of his ax,And leave it there far from a useful fireplaceTo warm the frozen swamp as best it couldWith the slow smokeless burning of decay. They Were Welcome To Their Belief Grief may have thought it was grief.Care may have thought it was care.They were welcome to their belief,The overimportant pair. No, it took all the snows that clungTo the low roof over his bed,Beginning when he was young,To induce the one snow on his head. But whenever the roof camme whiteThe head in the dark belowWas a shade less the color of night,A shade more the color of snow. Grief may have thought it was grief.Care may have thought it was care.But neither one was the thiefOf his raven color of hair. To E.T. I slumbered with your poems on my breastSpread open as I dropped them half-read throughLike dove wings on a figure on a tombTo see, if in a dream they brought of you, I might not have the chance I missed in lifeThrough some delay, and call you to your faceFirst soldier, and then poet, and then both,Who died a soldier-poet of your race. I meant, you meant, that nothing should remainUnsaid between us, brother, and this remained--And one thing more that was not then to say:The Victory for what it lost and gained. You went to meet the shell's embrace of fireOn Vimy Ridge; and when you fell that dayThe war seemed over more for you than me,But now for me than you--the other way. How over, though, for even me who knewThe foe thrust back unsafe beyond the Rhine,If I was not to speak of it to youAnd see you pleased once more with words of mine? To Earthward Love at the lips was touchAs sweet as I could bear;And once that seemed too much;I lived on air That crossed me from sweet things,The flow of - was it muskFrom hidden grapevine springsDown hill at dusk? I had the swirl and acheFrom sprays of honeysuckleThat when they're gathered shakeDew on the knuckle. I craved strong sweets, but thoseSeemed strong when I was young;The petal of the roseIt was that stung. Now no joy but lacks saltThat is not dashed with painAnd weariness and fault;I crave the stain Of tears, the aftermarkOf almost too much love,The sweet of bitter barkAnd burning clove. When stiff and sore and scarredI take away my handFrom leaning on it hardIn grass and sand, The hurt is not enough:I long for weight and strengthTo feel the earth as roughTo all my length. To The Thawing Wind Come with rain. O loud Southwester!Bring the singer, bring the nester;Give the buried flower a dream;Make the settled snowbank steam;Find the brown beneath the white;But whate'er you do tonight,Bath my window, make it flow,Melt it as the ice will go;Melt the glass and leave the sticksLike a hermit's crucifix;Burst into my narrow stall;Swing the picture on the wall;Run the rattling pages o'er;Scatter poems on the floor;Turn the poet out of door. Tree At My Window Tree at my window, window tree,My sash is lowered when night comes on;But let there never be curtain drawnBetween you and me. Vague dream head lifted out of the ground,And thing next most diffuse to cloud,Not all your light tongues talking aloudCould be profound. But tree, I have seen you taken and tossed,And if you have seen me when I slept,You have seen me when I was taken and sweptAnd all but lost. That day she put our heads together,Fate had her imagination about her,Your head so much concerned with outer,Mine with inner, weather. Two Look At Two Love and forgetting might have carried themA little further up the mountain sideWith night so near, but not much further up.They must have halted soon in any caseWith thoughts of a path back, how rough it wasWith rock and washout, and unsafe in darkness;When they were halted by a tumbled wallWith barbed-wire binding. They stood facing this,Spending what onward impulse they still hadIn One last look the way they must not go,On up the failing path, where, if a stoneOr earthslide moved at night, it moved itself;No footstep moved it. 'This is all,' they sighed,Good-night to woods.' But not so; there was more.A doe from round a spruce stood looking at themAcross the wall, as near the wall as they.She saw them in their field, they her in hers.The difficulty of seeing what stood still,Like some up-ended boulder split in two,Was in her clouded eyes; they saw no fear there.She seemed to think that two thus they were safe.Then, as if they were something that, though strange,She could not trouble her mind with too long,She sighed and passed unscared along the wall.'This, then, is all. What more is there to ask?'But no, not yet. A snort to bid them wait.A buck from round the spruce stood looking at themAcross the wall as near the wall as they.This was an antlered buck of lusty nostril,Not the same doe come back into her place.He viewed them quizzically with jerks of head,As if to ask, 'Why don't you make some motion?Or give some sign of life? Because you can't.I doubt if you're as living as you look."Thus till he had them almost feeling daredTo stretch a proffering hand -- and a spell-breaking.Then he too passed unscared along the wall.Two had seen two, whichever side you spoke from.'This must be all.' It was all. Still they stood,A great wave from it going over them,As if the earth in one unlooked-for favourHad made them certain earth returned their love. Two Tramps In Mud Time Out of the mud two strangers cameAnd caught me splitting wood in the yard,And one of them put me off my aimBy hailing cheerily "Hit them hard!"I knew pretty well why he had dropped behindAnd let the other go on a way.I knew pretty well what he had in mind:He wanted to take my job for pay. Good blocks of oak it was I split,As large around as the chopping block;And every piece I squarely hitFell splinterless as a cloven rock.The blows that a life of self-controlSpares to strike for the common good,That day, giving a loose my soul,I spent on the unimportant wood. The sun was warm but the wind was chill.You know how it is with an April dayWhen the sun is out and the wind is still,You're one month on in the middle of May.But if you so much as dare to speak,A cloud comes over the sunlit arch,A wind comes off a frozen peak,And you're two months back in the middle of March. A bluebird comes tenderly up to alightAnd turns to the wind to unruffle a plume,His song so pitched as not to exciteA single flower as yet to bloom.It is snowing a flake; and he half knewWinter was only playing possum.Except in color he isn't blue,But he wouldn't advise a thing to blossom. The water for which we may have to lookIn summertime with a witching wand,In every wheelrut's now a brook,In every print of a hoof a pond.Be glad of water, but don't forgetThe lurking frost in the earth beneathThat will steal forth after the sun is setAnd show on the water its crystal teeth. The time when most I loved my taskThe two must make me love it moreBy coming with what they came to ask.You'd think I never had felt beforeThe weight of an ax-head poised aloft,The grip of earth on outspread feet,The life of muscles rocking softAnd smooth and moist in vernal heat. Out of the wood two hulking tramps(From sleeping God knows where last night,But not long since in the lumber camps).They thought all chopping was theirs of right.Men of the woods and lumberjacks,They judged me by their appropriate tool.Except as a fellow handled an axThey had no way of knowing a fool. Nothing on either side was said.They knew they had but to stay their stay And all their logic would fill my head:As that I had no right to playWith what was another man's work for gain.My right might be love but theirs was need.And where the two exist in twainTheirs was the better right--agreed. But yield who will to their separation,My object in living is to uniteMy avocation and my vocationAs my two eyes make one in sight.Only where love and need are one,And the work is play for mortal stakes,Is the deed ever really doneFor Heaven and the future's sakes. Unharvested A scent of ripeness from over a wall.And come to leave the routine roadAnd look for what had made me stall,There sure enough was an apple treeThat had eased itself of its summer load,And of all but its trivial foliage free,Now breathed as light as a lady's fan.For there had been an apple fallAs complete as the apple had given man.The ground was one circle of solid red. May something go always unharvested!May much stay out of our stated plan,Apples or something forgotten and left,So smelling their sweetness would be no theft. Waiting  -- Afield At Dusk What things for dream there are when spectre-like,Moving among tall haycocks lightly piled,I enter alone upon the stubble field,From which the laborers' voices late have died,And in the antiphony of afterglowAnd rising full moon, sit me downUpon the full moon's side of the first haycockAnd lose myself amid so many alike.I dream upon the opposing lights of the hour,Preventing shadow until the moon prevail;I dream upon the night-hawks peopling heaven,Each circling each with vague unearthly cry,Or plunging headlong with fierce twang afar;And on the bat's mute antics, who would seemDimly to have made out my secret place,Only to lose it when he pirouettes,And seek it endlessly with purblind haste;On the last swallow's sweep; and on the raspIn the abyss of odor and rustle at my back,That, silenced by my advent, finds once more,After an interval, his instrument,And tries once-twice-and thrice if I be there;And on the worn book of old-golden songI brought not here to read, it seems, but holdAnd freshen in this air of withering sweetness;But on the memory of one absent most,For whom these lines when they shall greet her eye. What Fifty Said.. When I was young my teachers were the old.I gave up fire for form till I was cold.I suffered like a metal being cast.I went to school to age to learn the past. Now when I am old my teachers are the young.What can't be molded must be cracked and sprung.I strain at lessons fit to start a suture.I got to school to youth to learn the future. Wild Grapes What tree may not the fig be gathered from?The grape may not be gathered from the birch?It's all you know the grape, or know the birch.As a girl gathered from the birch myselfEqually with my weight in grapes, one autumn,I ought to know what tree the grape is fruit of.I was born, I suppose, like anyone,And grew to be a little boyish girlMy brother could not always leave at home.But that beginning was wiped out in fearThe day I swung suspended with the grapes,And was come after like EurydiceAnd brought down safely from the upper regions;And the life I live now's an extra lifeI can waste as I please on whom I please.So if you see me celebrate two birthdays,And give myself out of two different ages,One of them five years younger than I look- One day my brother led me to a gladeWhere a white birch he knew of stood alone,Wearing a thin head-dress of pointed leaves,And heavy on her heavy hair behind,Against her neck, an ornament of grapes.Grapes, I knew grapes from having seen them last year.One bunch of them, and there began to beBunches all round me growing in white birches,The way they grew round Leif the Lucky's German;Mostly as much beyond my lifted hands, though,As the moon used to seem when I was younger,And only freely to be had for climbing.My brother did the climbing; and at firstThrew me down grapes to miss and scatterAnd have to hunt for in sweet fern and hardhack;Which gave him some time to himself to eat,But not so much, perhaps, as a boy needed.So then, to make me wholly self-supporting,He climbed still higher and bent the tree to earthAnd put it in my hands to pick my own grapes.'Here, take a tree-top, I'll get down another.Hold on with all your might when I let go.'I said I had the tree. It wasn't true.The opposite was true. The tree had me.The minute it was left with me aloneIt caught me up as if I were the fishAnd it the fishpole. So I was translatedTo loud cries from my brother of 'Let go!Don't you know anything, you girl? Let go!'But I, with something of the baby gripAcquired ancestrally in just such treesWhen wilder mothers than our wildest nowHung babies out on branches by the handsTo dry or wash or tan, I don't know which,(You'll have to ask an evolutionist)-I held on uncomplainingly for life.My brother tried to make me laugh to help me.'What are you doing up there in those grapes?Don't be afraid. A few of them won't hurt you.I mean, they won't pick you if you don't them.'Much danger of my picking anything!By that time I was pretty well reducedTo a philosophy of hang-and-let-hang.'Now you know how it feels,' my brother said,'To be a bunch of fox-grapes, as they call them,That when it thinks it has escaped the foxBy growing where it shouldn't-on a birch,Where a fox wouldn't think to look for it-And if he looked and found it, couldn't reach it-Just then come you and I to gather it.Only you have the advantage of the grapesIn one way: you have one more stem to cling by,And promise more resistance to the picker.' One by one I lost off my hat and shoes,And still I clung. I let my head fall back,And shut my eyes against the sun, my earsAgainst my brother's nonsense; 'Drop,' he said,'I'll catch you in my arms. It isn't far.'(Stated in lengths of him it might not be.)'Drop or I'll shake the tree and shake you down.'Grim silence on my part as I sank lower,My small wrists stretching till they showed the banjo strings.'Why, if she isn't serious about it!Hold tight awhile till I think what to do.I'll bend the tree down and let you down by it.'I don't know much about the letting down;But once I felt ground with my stocking feetAnd the world came revolving back to me,I know I looked long at my curled-up fingers,Before I straightened them and brushed the bark off.My brother said: 'Don't you weigh anything?Try to weigh something next time, so you won'tBe run off with by birch trees into space.' It wasn't my not weighing anythingSo much as my not knowing anything-My brother had been nearer right before.I had not taken the first step in knowledge;I had not learned to let go with the hands,As still I have not learned to with the heart,And have no wish to with the heart-nor need,That I can see. The mind-is not the heart.I may yet live, as I know others live,To wish in vain to let go with the mind-Of cares, at night, to sleep; but nothing tells meThat I need learn to let go with the heart.Candy Man Who can take a sunrise, sprinkle it with dewCover it in chocolate and a miracle or twoThe candy man, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good Who can take a rainbow, wrap it in a sighSoak it in the sun and make a strawberry–lemon pieThe candy man?The candy man, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good Willy Wonka makes everything he bakesSatisfying and deliciousTalk about your childhood wishesYou can even eat the dishes Who can take tomorrow, dip it in a dreamSeparate the sorrow and collect up all the creamThe candy man, Willy Wonka can, the candy man canThe candy man can 'cause he mixes it with loveAnd makes the world taste good And the world tastes good'Cause the candy man thinks it should Cinderella I guess you think you know this story.You don't. The real one's much more gory.The phoney one, the one you know,Was cooked up years and years ago,And made to sound all soft and sappyjust to keep the children happy.Mind you, they got the first bit right,The bit where, in the dead of night,The Ugly Sisters, jewels and all,Departed for the Palace Ball,While darling little CinderellaWas locked up in a slimy cellar,Where rats who wanted things to eat,Began to nibble at her feet. She bellowed 'Help!' and 'Let me out!The Magic Fairy heard her shout.Appearing in a blaze of light,She said: 'My dear, are you all right?''All right?' cried Cindy .'Can't you see'I feel as rotten as can be!'She beat her fist against the wall,And shouted, 'Get me to the Ball!'There is a Disco at the Palace!'The rest have gone and I am jealous!'I want a dress! I want a coach!'And earrings and a diamond brooch!'And silver slippers, two of those!'And lovely nylon panty hose!'Done up like that I'll guarantee'The handsome Prince will fall for me!'The Fairy said, 'Hang on a tick.'She gave her wand a mighty flickAnd quickly, in no time at all,Cindy was at the Palace Ball! It made the Ugly Sisters winceTo see her dancing with the Prince.She held him very tight and pressedherself against his manly chest.The Prince himself was turned to pulp,All he could do was gasp and gulp.Then midnight struck. She shouted,'Heck!I've got to run to save my neck!'The Prince cried, 'No! Alas! Alack!'He grabbed her dress to hold her back.As Cindy shouted, 'Let me go!'The dress was ripped from head to toe. She ran out in her underwear,And lost one slipper on the stair.The Prince was on it like a dart,He pressed it to his pounding heart,'The girl this slipper fits,' he cried,'Tomorrow morn shall be my bride!I'll visit every house in town'Until I've tracked the maiden down!'Then rather carelessly, I fear,He placed it on a crate of beer. At once, one of the Ugly Sisters,(The one whose face was blotched with blisters)Sneaked up and grabbed the dainty shoe,And quickly flushed it down the loo.Then in its place she calmly putThe slipper from her own left foot.Ah ha, you see, the plot grows thicker,And Cindy's luck starts looking sicker. Next day, the Prince went charging downTo knock on all the doors in town.In every house, the tension grew.Who was the owner of the shoe?The shoe was long and very wide.(A normal foot got lost inside.)Also it smelled a wee bit icky.(The owner's feet were hot and sticky.)Thousands of eager people cameTo try it on, but all in vain.Now came the Ugly Sisters' go.One tried it on. The Prince screamed, 'No!'But she screamed, 'Yes! It fits! Whoopee!'So now you've got to marry me!'The Prince went white from ear to ear.He muttered, 'Let me out of here.''Oh no you don't! You made a vow!'There's no way you can back out now!''Off with her head!'The Prince roared back.They chopped it off with one big whack.This pleased the Prince. He smiled and said,'She's prettier without her head.'Then up came Sister Number Two,Who yelled, 'Now I will try the shoe!''Try this instead!' the Prince yelled back.He swung his trusty sword and smackHer head went crashing to the ground.It bounced a bit and rolled around.In the kitchen, peeling spuds,Cinderella heard the thudsOf bouncing heads upon the floor,And poked her own head round the door.'What's all the racket? 'Cindy cried.'Mind your own bizz,' the Prince replied.Poor Cindy's heart was torn to shreds.My Prince! she thought. He chops off heads!How could I marry anyoneWho does that sort of thing for fun? The Prince cried, 'Who's this dirty slut?'Off with her nut! Off with her nut!'Just then, all in a blaze of light,The Magic Fairy hove in sight,Her Magic Wand went swoosh and swish!'Cindy! 'she cried, 'come make a wish!'Wish anything and have no doubt'That I will make it come about!'Cindy answered, 'Oh kind Fairy,'This time I shall be more wary.'No more Princes, no more money.'I have had my taste of honey.I'm wishing for a decent man.'They're hard to find. D'you think you can?'Within a minute, CinderellaWas married to a lovely feller,A simple jam maker by trade,Who sold good home-made marmalade.Their house was filled with smiles and laughterAnd they were happy ever after. Dear Friends, We Surely All Agree 'Dear friends, we surely all agreeThere's almost nothing worse to seeThan some repulsive little bumWho's always chewing chewing gum.(It's very near as bad as thoseWho sit around and pick the nose).So please believe us when we sayThat chewing gum will never pay;This sticky habit's bound to sendThe chewer to a sticky end.Did any of you ever knowA person called Miss Bigelow?This dreadful woman saw no wrongIn chewing, chewing all day long.She chewed while bathing in the tub,She chewed while dancing at her club,She chewed in church and on the bus;It really was quite ludicrous!And when she couldn't find her gum,She'd chew up the linoleum,Or anything that happened near–A pair of boots, the postman's ear,Or other people's underclothes,And once she chewed her boy friend's nose.She went on chewing till, at last,Her chewing muscles grew so vastThat from her face her giant chinStuck out just like a violin.For years and years she chewed away,Consuming fifty packs a day,Until one summer's eve, alas,A horrid business came to pass.Miss Bigelow went late to bed,For half an hour she lay and read,Chewing and chewing all the whileLike some great clockwork crocodile.At last, she put her gum awayUpon a special little tray,And settled back and went to sleep–(She managed this by counting sheep).But now, how strange! Although she slept,Those massive jaws of hers still keptOn chewing, chewing through the night,Even with nothing there to bite.They were, you see, in such a grooveThey positively had to move.And very grim it was to hearIn pitchy darkness, loud and clear,This sleeping woman's great big trapOpening and shutting, snap–snap–snap!Faster and faster, chop–chop–chop,The noise went on, it wouldn't stop.Until at last her jaws decideTo pause and open extra wide,And with the most tremendous chewThey bit the lady's tongue in two.Thereafter, just from chewing gum,Miss Bigelow was always dumb,And spent her life shut up in someDisgusting sanatorium.And that is why we'll try so hardTo save Miss Violet BeauregardFrom suffering an equal fate.She's still quite young. It's not too late,Provided she survives the cure.We hope she does. We can't be sure.' Down They Go... Down they go!Hail and snow!Freezes and sneezes and noses will blow! Excerpt – 'This famous wicked little taleShould never have been put on saleIt is a mystery to meWhy loving parents cannot seeThat this is actually a bookAbout a brazen little crook...' '...Now just imagine how you'd feelIf you had cooked a lovely meal,Delicious porridge, steaming hot,Fresh coffee in the coffee pot,With maybe toast and marmalade,The table beautifully laid,One place for you and one for dad,Another for your little lad.Then dad cries, 'Golly–gosh! Gee whizz!'Oh cripes! How hot this porridge is!'Let's take a walk along the street'Until it's cool enough to eat.'He adds, 'An early morning stroll'Is good for people on the whole.'It makes your appetite improve'It also helps your bowels move.'No proper wife would dare to questionSuch a sensible suggestion,Above all not at breakfast–timeWhen men are seldom at their prime.No sooner are you down the roadThan Goldilocks, that little toadThat nosey thieving little louse,Comes sneaking in your empty house....' '...(Here comes the next catastrophe.)Most educated people chooseTo rid themselves of socks and shoesBefore they clamber into bed.But Goldie didn't give a shred.Her filthy shoes were thick with grime,And mud and mush and slush and slime.Worse still, upon the heel of oneWas something that a dog had done.I say once more, what would you thinkIf all this horrid dirt and stinkWas smeared upon your eiderdownBy this revolting little clown?(The famous story has no cluesTo show the girl removed her shoes.) Oh, what a tale of crime on crime!Let's check it for a second time. Crime One, the prosecution's case:She breaks and enters someone's place. Crime Two, the prosecutor notes:She steals a bowl of porridge oats. Crime Three: She breaks a precious chairBelonging to the Baby Bear. Crime Four: She smears each spotless sheetWith filthy messes from her feet. A judge would say without a blink,'Ten years hard labour in the clink!'But in the book, as you will see,The little beast gets off scot–free,While tiny children near and farShout 'Goody–good! Hooray! Hurrah!''Poor darling Goldilocks!' they say,'Thank goodness that she got away!'Myself, I think I'd rather sendYoung Goldie to a sticky end.'Oh daddy!' cried the Baby Bear,'My porridge gone! It isn't fair!''Then go upstairs,' the Big Bear said,'Your porridge is upon the bed.'But as it's inside mademoiselle,'You'll have to eat her up as well.' Hey Diddle Diddle Hey diddle diddleWe're all on the fiddleAnd never get up until noon.We only take cashWhich we carefully stashAnd we work by the light of the moon. Hot And Cold A woman who my mother knowsCame in and took off all her clothes. Said I, not being very old,'By golly gosh, you must be cold!' 'No, no!' she cried. 'Indeed I'm not!I'm feeling devilishly hot!' I Had A Little Nut-Tree, I had a little nut-tree,Nothing would it bear.I searched in all its branches,But not a nut was there. 'Oh, little tree,' I begged,'Give me just a few.'The little tree looked down at meAnd whispered, 'Nuts to you.' I Want It Now Gooses, geesesI want my geese to lay gold eggs for easterAt least a hundred a dayAnd by the way I want a feastI want a bean feastCream buns and doughnutsAnd fruitcake with no nutsSo good you could go nuts No, now I want a ballI want a partyPink macaroonsAnd a million balloonsAnd performing baboons andGive it to me now I want the worldI want the whole worldI want to lock itAll up in my pocketIt's my bar of chocolateGive it to me now I want todayI want tomorrowI want to wear 'emLike braids in my hair andI don't want to share 'em I want a party with roomfuls of laughterTen thousand tons of ice creamAnd if I don't get the things I am afterI'm going to scream I want the worksI want the whole worksPresents and prizesAnd sweets and surprisesOf all shapes and sizes And now Don't care how, I want it nowDon't care how, I want it now If You Are Old And Have The Shakes 'If you are old and have the shakes,If all your bones are full of aches,If you can hardly walk at all,If living drives you up the wall,If you're a grump and full of spite,If you're a human parasite,THEN WHAT YOU NEED IS WONKA–VITE!Your eyes will shine, your hair will grow,Your face and skin will start to glow,Your rotten teeth will all drop outAnd in their place new teeth will sprout.Those rolls of fat around your hipsWill vanish, and your wrinkled lipsWill get so soft and rosy–pinkThat all the boys will smile and winkAnd whisper secretly that thisIs just the girl they want to kiss!But wait! For that is not the mostImportant thing of which to boast.Good looks you'll have, we've told you so,But looks aren't everything, you know.Each pill, as well, to you will giveAN EXTRA TWENTY YEARS TO LIVE!So come, old friends, and do what's right!Let's make your lives as bright as bright!Let's take a dose of this delight!This heavenly magic dynamite!You can't go wrong, you must go right!IT'S WILLY WONKA'S WONKA–VITE!' I'Ve Got A Golden Ticket I never thought my life could beAnything but catastropheBut suddenly I begin to seeA bit of good luck for me 'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden twinkle in my eye I never had a chance to shineNever a happy song to singBut suddenly half the world is mineWhat an amazing thing 'Cause I've got a golden ticketIt's ours, CharlieI've got a golden sun up in the sky I never thought I'd see the dayWhen I would face the world and sayGood morning, look at the sunI never thought that I would beSlap in the lap of luxury'Cause I'd have said it couldn't be doneBut it can be done I never dreamed that I would climbOver the moon in ecstasyBut nevertheless, it's there that I'mShortly about to be 'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden chance to make my wayAnd with a golden ticket, it's a golden day Good morning, look at the sun'Cause I'd have said it couldn't be doneBut it can be done I never dreamed that I would climbOver the moon in ecstasyBut nevertheless, it's there that I'mShortly about to be 'Cause I've got a golden ticket'Cause I've got a golden ticketI've got a golden chance to make my wayAnd with a golden ticket, it's a golden day Little Red Riding Hood And The Wolf As soon as Wolf began to feelThat he would like a decent meal,He went and knocked on Grandma's door.When Grandma opened it, she sawThe sharp white teeth, the horrid grin,And Wolfie said, 'May I come in?'Poor Grandmamma was terrified,'He's going to eat me up!' she cried.And she was absolutely right.He ate her up in one big bite.But Grandmamma was small and tough,And Wolfie wailed, 'That's not enough!I haven't yet begun to feelThat I have had a decent meal!'He ran around the kitchen yelping,'I've got to have a second helping!' Then added with a frightful leer,'I'm therefore going to wait right hereTill Little Miss Red Riding HoodComes home from walking in the wood.' He quickly put on Grandma's clothes,(Of course he hadn't eaten those).He dressed himself in coat and hat.He put on shoes, and after that,He even brushed and curled his hair,Then sat himself in Grandma's chair. In came the little girl in red.She stopped. She stared. And then she said,'What great big ears you have, Grandma.''All the better to hear you with,'the Wolf replied.'What great big eyes you have, Grandma.'said Little Red Riding Hood.'All the better to see you with,'the Wolf replied.He sat there watching her and smiled.He thought, I'm going to eat this child.Compared with her old Grandmamma,She's going to taste like caviar. Then Little Red Riding Hood said, 'But Grandma, what a lovely great bigfurry coat you have on.' 'That's wrong!' cried Wolf.'Have you forgotTo tell me what BIG TEETH I've got?Ah well, no matter what you say,I'm going to eat you anyway.' The small girl smiles. One eyelid flickers.She whips a pistol from her knickers.She aims it at the creature's head,And bang bang bang, she shoots him dead. A few weeks later, in the wood,I came across Miss Riding Hood.But what a change! No cloak of red,No silly hood upon her head.She said, 'Hello, and do please noteMy lovely furry wolfskin coat.' Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary Mary, Mary, quite contraryHow does your garden grow?'I live with my brat in a high-rise flat,So how in the world would I know.' My Teacher Wasn'T Half As Nice As Yours Seems ToBe 'My teacher wasn't half as nice as yours seems to be.His name was Mister Unsworth and he taught us history.And when you didn't know a date he'd get you by the earAnd start to twist while you sat there quite paralysed with fear.He'd twist and twist and twist your ear and twist it more and more.Until at last the ear came off and landed on the floor.Our class was full of one-eared boys. I'm certain there were eight.Who'd had them twisted off because they didn't know a date.So let us now praise teachers who today are all so fineAnd yours in particular is totally divine.' Oh You Knid, You Are Vile And Vermicious.... Oh you Knid, you are vile and vermicious!You are slimy and soggy and squishous!But what do we care'Cause you can't get in here,So hop it and don't get ambitious! Pure Imagination Come with me and you'll beIn a world of pure imaginationTake a look and you'll seeInto your imagination We'll begin with a spinTrav'ling in the world of my creationWhat we'll see will defyExplanation {Refrain} If you want to view paradiseSimply look around and view itAnything you want to, do itWant to change the world, there's nothing to it There is no life I knowTo compare with pure imaginationLiving there, you'll be freeIf you truly wish to be {Refrain} There is no life I knowTo compare with pure imaginationLiving there, you'll be freeIf you truly wish to be St Ives As I was going to St IvesI met a man with seven wivesSaid he, 'I think it's much more funThan getting stuck with only one.' Television The most important thing we've learned,So far as children are concerned,Is never, NEVER, NEVER letThem near your television set --Or better still, just don't installThe idiotic thing at all.In almost every house we've been,We've watched them gaping at the screen.They loll and slop and lounge about,And stare until their eyes pop out.(Last week in someone's place we sawA dozen eyeballs on the floor.)They sit and stare and stare and sitUntil they're hypnotised by it,Until they're absolutely drunkWith all that shocking ghastly junk.Oh yes, we know it keeps them still,They don't climb out the window sill,They never fight or kick or punch,They leave you free to cook the lunchAnd wash the dishes in the sink --But did you ever stop to think,To wonder just exactly whatThis does to your beloved tot?IT ROTS THE SENSE IN THE HEAD!IT KILLS IMAGINATION DEAD!IT CLOGS AND CLUTTERS UP THE MIND!IT MAKES A CHILD SO DULL AND BLINDHE CAN NO LONGER UNDERSTANDA FANTASY, A FAIRYLAND!HIS BRAIN BECOMES AS SOFT AS CHEESE!HIS POWERS OF THINKING RUST AND FREEZE!HE CANNOT THINK -- HE ONLY SEES!'All right!' you'll cry. 'All right!' you'll say,'But if we take the set away,What shall we do to entertainOur darling children? Please explain!'We'll answer this by asking you,'What used the darling ones to do?'How used they keep themselves contentedBefore this monster was invented?'Have you forgotten? Don't you know?We'll say it very loud and slow:THEY ... USED ... TO ... READ! They'd READ and READ,AND READ and READ, and then proceedTo READ some more. Great Scott! Gadzooks!One half their lives was reading books!The nursery shelves held books galore!Books cluttered up the nursery floor!And in the bedroom, by the bed,More books were waiting to be read!Such wondrous, fine, fantastic talesOf dragons, gypsies, queens, and whalesAnd treasure isles, and distant shoresWhere smugglers rowed with muffled oars,And pirates wearing purple pants,And sailing ships and elephants,And cannibals crouching 'round the pot,Stirring away at something hot.(It smells so good, what can it be?Good gracious, it's Penelope.)The younger ones had Beatrix PotterWith Mr. Tod, the dirty rotter,And Squirrel Nutkin, Pigling Bland,And Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle and-Just How The Camel Got His Hump,And How the Monkey Lost His Rump,And Mr. Toad, and bless my soul,There's Mr. Rat and Mr. Mole-Oh, books, what books they used to know,Those children living long ago!So please, oh please, we beg, we pray,Go throw your TV set away,And in its place you can installA lovely bookshelf on the wall.Then fill the shelves with lots of books,Ignoring all the dirty looks,The screams and yells, the bites and kicks,And children hitting you with sticks-Fear not, because we promise youThat, in about a week or twoOf having nothing else to do,They'll now begin to feel the needOf having something to read.And once they start -- oh boy, oh boy!You watch the slowly growing joyThat fills their hearts. They'll grow so keenThey'll wonder what they'd ever seenIn that ridiculous machine,That nauseating, foul, unclean,Repulsive television screen!And later, each and every kidWill love you more for what you did. The Crocodile 'No animal is half as vileAs Crocky-Wock, the crocodile.On Saturdays he likes to crunchSix juicy children for his lunchAnd he especially enjoysJust three of each, three girls, three boys.He smears the boys (to make them hot)With mustard from the mustard pot.But mustard doesn't go with girls,It tastes all wrong with plaits and curls.With them, what goes extremely wellIs butterscotch and caramel.It's such a super marvelous treatWhen boys are hot and girls are sweet.At least that's Crocky's point of viewHe ought to know. He's had a few.That's all for now. It's time for bed.Lie down and rest your sleepy head.Ssh. Listen. What is that I hear,Galumphing softly up the stair? Go lock the door and fetch my gun!Go on child, hurry! Quickly run!No stop! Stand back! He's coming in!Oh, look, that greasy greenish skin!The shining teeth, the greedy smile!It's Crocky-Wock, the Crocodile!' The Pig In England once there lived a bigAnd wonderfully clever pig.To everybody it was plainThat Piggy had a massive brain.He worked out sums inside his head,There was no book he hadn't read.He knew what made an airplane fly,He knew how engines worked and why.He knew all this, but in the endOne question drove him round the bend:He simply couldn't puzzle outWhat LIFE was really all about.What was the reason for his birth?Why was he placed upon this earth?His giant brain went round and round.Alas, no answer could be found.Till suddenly one wondrous night.All in a flash he saw the light.He jumped up like a ballet dancerAnd yelled, 'By gum, I've got the answer! ''They want my bacon slice by slice'To sell at a tremendous price!'They want my tender juicy chops'To put in all the butcher's shops!'They want my pork to make a roast'And that's the part'll cost the most!'They want my sausages in strings!'They even want my chitterlings!'The butcher's shop! The carving knife!'That is the reason for my life! 'Such thoughts as these are not designedTo give a pig great peace of mind.Next morning, in comes Farmer Bland,A pail of pigswill in his hand,And piggy with a mighty roar,Bashes the farmer to the floor…Now comes the rather grisly bitSo let's not make too much of it,Except that you must understandThat Piggy did eat Farmer Bland,He ate him up from head to toe,Chewing the pieces nice and slow.It took an hour to reach the feet,Because there was so much to eat,And when he finished, Pig, of course,Felt absolutely no remorse.Slowly he scratched his brainy headAnd with a little smile he said,'I had a fairly powerful hunch'That he might have me for his lunch.'And so, because I feared the worst,'I thought I'd better eat him first.' The Rowing Song Round the world and home againThat's the sailor's wayFaster faster, faster faster There's no earthly way of knowingWhich direction we are goingThere's no knowing where we're rowingOr which way the river's flowing Is it raining, is it snowingIs a hurricane a–blowing Not a speck of light is showingSo the danger must be growingAre the fires of Hell a–glowingIs the grisly reaper mowing Yes, the danger must be growingFor the rowers keep on rowingAnd they're certainly not showingAny signs that they are slowing. The Three Little Pigs The animal I really dig,Above all others is the pig.Pigs are noble. Pigs are clever,Pigs are courteous. However,Now and then, to break this rule,One meets a pig who is a fool.What, for example, would you say,If strolling through the woods one day,Right there in front of you you sawA pig who'd built his house of STRAW?The Wolf who saw it licked his lips,And said, 'That pig has had his chips.''Little pig, little pig, let me come in!''No, no, by the hairs on my chinny-chin-chin!''Then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!' The little pig began to pray,But Wolfie blew his house away.He shouted, 'Bacon, pork and ham!Oh, what a lucky Wolf I am!'And though he ate the pig quite fast,He carefully kept the tail till last.Wolf wandered on, a trifle bloated.Surprise, surprise, for soon he notedAnother little house for pigs,And this one had been built of TWIGS! 'Little pig, little pig, let me come in!''No, no, by the hairs on my chinny-chin-chin!''Then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!' The Wolf said, 'Okay, here we go!'He then began to blow and blow.The little pig began to squeal.He cried, 'Oh Wolf, you've had one meal!Why can't we talk and make a deal?The Wolf replied, 'Not on your nelly!'And soon the pig was in his belly. 'Two juicy little pigs!' Wolf cried,'But still I'm not quite satisfied!I know how full my tummy's bulging,But oh, how I adore indulging.'So creeping quietly as a mouse,The Wolf approached another house,A house which also had insideA little piggy trying to hide.'You'll not get me!' the Piggy cried.'I'll blow you down!' the Wolf replied.'You'll need,' Pig said, 'a lot of puff,And I don't think you've got enough.'Wolf huffed and puffed and blew and blew.The house stayed up as good as new.'If I can't blow it down,' Wolf said,I'll have to blow it up instead.I'll come back in the dead of nightAnd blow it up with dynamite!'Pig cried, 'You brute! I might have known!'Then, picking up the telephone,He dialed as quickly as he couldThe number of red Riding Hood. 'Hello,' she said. 'Who's speaking? Who?Oh, hello, Piggy, how d'you do?'Pig cried, 'I need your help, Miss Hood!Oh help me, please! D'you think you could?''I'll try of course,' Miss Hood replied.'What's on your mind...?' 'A Wolf!' Pig cried.'I know you've dealt with wolves before,And now I've got one at my door!' 'My darling Pig,' she said, 'my sweet,That's something really up my street.I've just begun to wash my hair.But when it's dry, I'll be right there.' A short while later, through the wood,Came striding brave Miss Riding Hood.The Wolf stood there, his eyes ablaze,And yellowish, like mayonnaise.His teeth were sharp, his gums were raw,And spit was dripping from his jaw.Once more the maiden's eyelid flickers.She draws the pistol from her knickers.Once more she hits the vital spot,And kills him with a single shot.Pig, peeping through the window, stoodAnd yelled, 'Well done, Miss Riding Hood!' Ah, Piglet, you must never trustYoung ladies from the upper crust.For now, Miss Riding Hood, one notes,Not only has two wolfskin coats,But when she goes from place to place,She has a PIGSKIN TRAVELING CASE. There's No Earthly Way Of Knowing There's no earthly way of knowingWhich direction they are going!There's no knowing where they're rowing,Or which way they river's flowing!Not a speck of light is showing,So the danger must be growing,For the rowers keep on rowing,And they're certainly not showingAny signs that they are slowing... Veruca Salt, The Little Brute 'Veruca Salt, the little brute,Has just gone down the garbage chute,(And as we very rightly thoughtThat in a case like this we oughtTo see the thing completely through,We've polished off her parents, too.)Down goes Veruca! Down the drain!And here, perhaps, we should explainThat she will meet, as she descends,A rather different set of friendsTo those that she has left behind–These won't be nearly so refined.A fish head, for example, cutThis morning from a halibut.'Hello! Good morning! How d'you do?How nice to meet you! How are you?'And then a little further downA mass of others gather round:A bacon rind, some rancid lard,A loaf of bread gone stale and hard,A steak that nobody could chew,An oyster from an oyster stew,Some liverwurst so old and grayOne smelled it from a mile away,A rotten nut, a reeky pear,A thing the cat left on the stair,And lots of other things as well,Each with a rather horrid smell.These are Veruca's new found friendsThat she will meet as she descends,And this is the price she has to payFor going so very far astray.But now, my dears, we think you mightBe wondering–is it really rightThat every single bit of blameAnd all the scolding and the shameShould fall upon Veruca Salt?Is she the only one at fault?For though she's spoiled, and dreadfully so,A girl can't spoil herself, you know.Who spoiled her, then? Ah, who indeed?Who pandered to her every need?Who turned her into such a brat?Who are the culprits? Who did that?Alas! You needen't look so farTo find out who these sinners are.They are (and this is very sad)Her loving parents, MUM and DAD.And that is why we're glad they fellInto the garbage chute as well.' #BlakeA Cradle Song Sweet dreams form a shade,O'er my lovely infants head.Sweet dreams of pleasant streams,By happy silent moony beams Sweet sleep with soft down.Weave thy brows an infant crown.Sweet sleep Angel mild,Hover o'er my happy child. Sweet smiles in the night,Hover over my delight.Sweet smiles Mothers smiles,All the livelong night beguiles. Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,Chase not slumber from thy eyes,Sweet moans, sweeter smiles,All the dovelike moans beguiles. Sleep sleep happy child,All creation slept and smil'd.Sleep sleep, happy sleep.While o'er thee thy mother weep Sweet babe in thy face,Holy image I can trace.Sweet babe once like thee.Thy maker lay and wept for me Wept for me for thee for all,When he was an infant small.Thou his image ever see.Heavenly face that smiles on thee, Smiles on thee on me on all,Who became an infant small,Infant smiles are His own smiles,Heaven &amp; earth to peace beguiles. A Divine Image Cruelty has a human heart,  And Jealousy a human face;Terror the human form divine,  And Secresy the human dress. The human dress is forged iron,  The human form a fiery forge,The human face a furnace sealed,  The human heart its hungry gorge. A Dream Once a dream did weave a shadeO'er my angel-guarded bed,That an emmet lost its wayWhere on grass methought I lay. Troubled, wildered, and forlorn,Dark, benighted, travel-worn,Over many a tangle spray,All heart-broke, I heard her say: 'Oh my children! do they cry,Do they hear their father sigh?Now they look abroad to see,Now return and weep for me.' Pitying, I dropped a tear:But I saw a glow-worm near,Who replied, 'What wailing wightCalls the watchman of the night? 'I am set to light the ground,While the beetle goes his round:Follow now the beetle's hum;Little wanderer, hie thee home! ' A Little Boy Lost Nought loves another as itself,  Nor venerates another so,Nor is it possible to thought  A greater than itself to know. 'And, father, how can I love you  Or any of my brothers more?I love you like the little bird  That picks up crumbs around the door.' The Priest sat by and heard the child;  In trembling zeal he seized his hair,He led him by his little coat,  And all admired the priestly care. And standing on the altar high,  'Lo, what a fiend is here! said he:'One who sets reason up for judge  Of our most holy mystery.' The weeping child could not be heard,  The weeping parents wept in vain:They stripped him to his little shirt,  And bound him in an iron chain, And burned him in a holy place  Where many had been burned before;The weeping parents wept in vain.  Are such thing done on Albion's shore? A Little Girl Lost Children of the future age,Reading this indignant page,Know that in a former timeLove, sweet love, was thought a crime. In the age of gold,Free from winter's cold,Youth and maiden bright,To the holy light,Naked in the sunny beams delight. Once a youthful pair,Filled with softest care,Met in garden brightWhere the holy lightHad just removed the curtains of the night. Then, in rising day,On the grass they play;Parents were afar,Strangers came not near,And the maiden soon forgot her fear. Tired with kisses sweet,They agree to meetWhen the silent sleepWaves o'er heaven's deep,And the weary tired wanderers weep. To her father whiteCame the maiden bright;But his loving look,Like the holy bookAll her tender limbs with terror shook. 'Ona, pale and weak,To thy father speak!Oh the trembling fear!Oh the dismal careThat shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair!' A Poison Tree I was angry with my friend:I told my wrath, my wrath did end.I was angry with my foe:I told it not, my wrath did grow. And I watered it in fears,Night and morning with my tears;And I sunned it with smiles,And with soft deceitful wiles. And it grew both day and night,Till it bore an apple bright.And my foe beheld it shine.And he knew that it was mine, And into my garden stoleWhen the night had veiled the pole;In the morning glad I seeMy foe outstretched beneath the tree. A QUESTION ANSWERED What is it men in women do require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire.What is it women do in men require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire. A Song Sweet dreams, form a shadeO'er my lovely infant's head!Sweet dreams of pleasant streamsBy happy, silent, moony beams! Sweet Sleep, with soft downWeave thy brows an infant crownSweet Sleep, angel mild,Hover o'er my happy child! Sweet smiles, in the nightHover over my delight!Sweet smiles, mother's smile,All the livelong night beguile. Sweet moans, dovelike sighs,Chase not slumber from thine eyes!Sweet moan, sweeter smile,All the dovelike moans beguile. Sleep, sleep, happy child!All creation slept and smiled.Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,While o'er thee doth mother weep. Sweet babe, in thy faceHoly image I can trace;Sweet babe, once like theeThy Maker lay, and wept for me: Wept for me, for thee, for all,When He was an infant small.Thou His image ever see,Heavenly face that smiles on thee! Smiles on thee, on me, on all,Who became an infant small;Infant smiles are his own smiles;Heaven and earth to peace beguiles. A War Song To Englishmen Prepare, prepare the iron helm of war,Bring forth the lots, cast in the spacious orb;Th' Angel of Fate turns them with mighty hands,And casts them out upon the darken'd earth!Prepare, prepare! Prepare your hearts for Death's cold hand! prepareYour souls for flight, your bodies for the earth;Prepare your arms for glorious victory;Prepare your eyes to meet a holy God!Prepare, prepare! Whose fatal scroll is that? Methinks 'tis mine!Why sinks my heart, why faltereth my tongue?Had I three lives, I'd die in such a cause,And rise, with ghosts, over the well-fought field.Prepare, prepare! The arrows of Almighty God are drawn!Angels of Death stand in the louring heavens!Thousands of souls must seek the realms of light,And walk together on the clouds of heaven!Prepare, prepare! Soldiers, prepare! Our cause is Heaven's cause;Soldiers, prepare! Be worthy of our cause:Prepare to meet our fathers in the sky:Prepare, O troops, that are to fall to-day!Prepare, prepare! Alfred shall smile, and make his harp rejoice;The Norman William, and the learnèd Clerk,And Lion Heart, and black-brow'd Edward, withHis loyal queen, shall rise, and welcome us!Prepare, prepare! Ah Sunflower Ah Sunflower, weary of time,  Who countest the steps of the sun;Seeking after that sweet golden clime  Where the traveller's journey is done; Where the Youth pined away with desire,  And the pale virgin shrouded in snow,Arise from their graves, and aspire  Where my Sunflower wishes to go! America, A Prophecy      The shadowy Daughter of Urthona stood before red Orc,    When fourteen suns had faintly journey'd o'er his dark abode:    His food she brought in iron baskets, his drink in cups of iron:    Crown'd with a helmet and dark hair the nameless female stood;    A quiver with its burning stores, a bow like that of night,   When pestilence is shot from heaven: no other arms she need!    Invulnerable though naked, save where clouds roll round her loins   Their awful folds in the dark air: silent she stood as night;   For never from her iron tongue could voice or sound arise,  But dumb till that dread day when Orc assay'd his fierce embrace.  'Dark Virgin,' said the hairy youth, 'thy father stern, abhorr'd, Rivets my tenfold chains while still on high my spirit soars; Sometimes an Eagle screaming in the sky, sometimes a Lion  Stalking upon the mountains, and sometimes a Whale, I lash The raging fathomless abyss; anon a Serpent folding Around the pillars of Urthona, and round thy dark limbs  On the Canadian wilds I fold; feeble my spirit folds,  For chain'd beneath I rend these caverns: when thou bringest food I howl my joy, and my red eyes seek to behold thy face-- In vain! these clouds roll to and fro, and hide thee from my sight.'   Silent as despairing love, and strong as jealousy, The hairy shoulders rend the links; free are the wrists of fire;  Round the terrific loins he seiz'd the panting, struggling womb; It joy'd: she put aside her clouds and smiled her first-born smile,As when a black cloud shews its lightnings to the silent deep.   Soon as she saw the terrible boy, then burst the virgin cry:   'I know thee, I have found thee, and I will not let thee go:  Thou art the image of God who dwells in darkness of Africa,  And thou art fall'n to give me life in regions of dark death.On my American plains I feel the struggling afflictions  Endur'd by roots that writhe their arms into the nether deep. I see a Serpent in Canada who courts me to his love,  In Mexico an Eagle, and a Lion in Peru;  I see a Whale in the south-sea, drinking my soul away.  O what limb-rending pains I feel! thy fire and my frost  Mingle in howling pains, in furrows by thy lightnings rent.  This is eternal death, and this the torment long foretold.' An Imitation Of Spenser Golden Apollo, that thro' heaven wideScatter'st the rays of light, and truth's beams,In lucent words my darkling verses dight,And wash my earthy mind in thy clear streams,That wisdom may descend in fairy dreams,All while the jocund hours in thy trainScatter their fancies at thy poet's feet;And when thou yields to night thy wide domain,Let rays of truth enlight his sleeping brain.For brutish Pan in vain might thee assayWith tinkling sounds to dash thy nervous verse,Sound without sense; yet in his rude affray,(For ignorance is Folly's leasing nurseAnd love of Folly needs none other's curse)Midas the praise hath gain'd of lengthen'd ears,For which himself might deem him ne'er the worseTo sit in council with his modern peers,And judge of tinkling rimes and elegances terse. And thou, Mercurius, that with wingèd browDost mount aloft into the yielding sky,And thro' Heav'n's halls thy airy flight dost throw,Entering with holy feet to where on highJove weighs the counsel of futurity;Then, laden with eternal fate, dost goDown, like a falling star, from autumn sky,And o'er the surface of the silent deep dost fly: If thou arrivest at the sandy shoreWhere nought but envious hissing adders dwell,Thy golden rod, thrown on t  he dusty floor,Can charm to harmony with potent spell.Such is sweet Eloquence, that does dispelEnvy and Hate that thirst for human gore;And cause in sweet society to dwellVile savage minds that lurk in lonely cell O Mercury, assist my lab'ring senseThat round the circle of the world would fly,As the wing'd eagle scorns the tow'ry fenceOf Alpine hills round his high aëry,And searches thro' the corners of the sky,Sports in the clouds to hear the thunder's sound,And see the wingèd lightnings as they fly;Then, bosom'd in an amber cloud, aroundPlumes his wide wings, and seeks Sol's palace high. And thou, O warrior maid invincible,Arm'd with the terrors of Almighty Jove,Pallas, Minerva, maiden terrible,Lov'st thou to walk the peaceful solemn grove,In solemn gloom of branches interwove?Or bear'st thy AEgis o'er the burning field,Where, like the sea, the waves of battle move?Or have thy soft piteous eyes beheldThe weary wanderer thro' the desert rove?Or does th' afflicted man thy heav'nly bosom move? And Did Those Feet In Ancient Time And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded hereAmong these dark satanic mills? Bring me my bow of burning gold!Bring me my arrows of desire!Bring me my spear! O clouds, unfold!Bring me my chariot of fire! I will not cease from mental fight,Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,Till we have built JerusalemIn England's green and pleasant land. Auguries Of Innocence To see a World in a Grain of SandAnd a Heaven in a Wild Flower,Hold Infinity in the palm of your handAnd Eternity in an hour. A Robin Red breast in a CagePuts all Heaven in a Rage.A dove house fill'd with doves & PigeonsShudders Hell thro' all its regions.A dog starv'd at his Master's GatePredicts the ruin of the State.A Horse misus'd upon the RoadCalls to Heaven for Human blood.Each outcry of the hunted HareA fibre from the Brain does tear.A Skylark wounded in the wing,A Cherubim does cease to sing.The Game Cock clipp'd and arm'd for fightDoes the Rising Sun affright.Every Wolf's & Lion's howlRaises from Hell a Human Soul.The wild deer, wand'ring here & there,Keeps the Human Soul from Care.The Lamb misus'd breeds public strifeAnd yet forgives the Butcher's Knife.The Bat that flits at close of EveHas left the Brain that won't believe.The Owl that calls upon the NightSpeaks the Unbeliever's fright.He who shall hurt the little WrenShall never be belov'd by Men.He who the Ox to wrath has mov'dShall never be by Woman lov'd.The wanton Boy that kills the FlyShall feel the Spider's enmity.He who torments the Chafer's spriteWeaves a Bower in endless Night.The Catterpillar on the LeafRepeats to thee thy Mother's grief.Kill not the Moth nor Butterfly,For the Last Judgement draweth nigh.He who shall train the Horse to WarShall never pass the Polar Bar.The Beggar's Dog & Widow's Cat,Feed them & thou wilt grow fat.The Gnat that sings his Summer's songPoison gets from Slander's tongue.The poison of the Snake & NewtIs the sweat of Envy's Foot.The poison of the Honey BeeIs the Artist's Jealousy.The Prince's Robes & Beggars' RagsAre Toadstools on the Miser's Bags.A truth that's told with bad intentBeats all the Lies you can invent.It is right it should be so;Man was made for Joy & Woe;And when this we rightly knowThro' the World we safely go.Joy & Woe are woven fine,A Clothing for the Soul divine;Under every grief & pineRuns a joy with silken twine.The Babe is more than swadling Bands;Throughout all these Human LandsTools were made, & born were hands,Every Farmer Understands.Every Tear from Every EyeBecomes a Babe in Eternity.This is caught by Females brightAnd return'd to its own delight.The Bleat, the Bark, Bellow & RoarAre Waves that Beat on Heaven's Shore.The Babe that weeps the Rod beneathWrites Revenge in realms of death.The Beggar's Rags, fluttering in Air,Does to Rags the Heavens tear.The Soldier arm'd with Sword & Gun,Palsied strikes the Summer's Sun.The poor Man's Farthing is worth moreThan all the Gold on Afric's Shore.One Mite wrung from the Labrer's handsShall buy & sell the Miser's lands:Or, if protected from on high,Does that whole Nation sell & buy.He who mocks the Infant's FaithShall be mock'd in Age & Death.He who shall teach the Child to DoubtThe rotting Grave shall ne'er get out.He who respects the Infant's faithTriumph's over Hell & Death.The Child's Toys & the Old Man's ReasonsAre the Fruits of the Two seasons.The Questioner, who sits so sly,Shall never know how to Reply.He who replies to words of DoubtDoth put the Light of Knowledge out.The Strongest Poison ever knownCame from Caesar's Laurel Crown.Nought can deform the Human RaceLike the Armour's iron brace.When Gold & Gems adorn the PlowTo peaceful Arts shall Envy Bow.A Riddle or the Cricket's CryIs to Doubt a fit Reply.The Emmet's Inch & Eagle's MileMake Lame Philosophy to smile.He who Doubts from what he seesWill ne'er believe, do what you Please.If the Sun & Moon should doubtThey'd immediately Go out.To be in a Passion you Good may do,But no Good if a Passion is in you.The Whore & Gambler, by the StateLicenc'd, build that Nation's Fate.The Harlot's cry from Street to StreetShall weave Old England's winding Sheet.The Winner's Shout, the Loser's Curse,Dance before dead England's Hearse.Every Night & every MornSome to Misery are Born.Every Morn & every NightSome are Born to sweet Delight.Some ar Born to sweet Delight,Some are born to Endless Night.We are led to Believe a LieWhen we see not Thro' the EyeWhich was Born in a Night to Perish in a NightWhen the Soul Slept in Beams of Light.God Appears & God is LightTo those poor Souls who dwell in the Night,But does a Human Form DisplayTo those who Dwell in Realms of day. Broken Love MY Spectre around me night and day Like a wild beast guards my way; My Emanation far within Weeps incessantly for my sin.  ‘A fathomless and boundless deep,         There we wander, there we weep; On the hungry craving wind My Spectre follows thee behind.  ‘He scents thy footsteps in the snow Wheresoever thou dost go,        Thro’ the wintry hail and rain. When wilt thou return again?  ’Dost thou not in pride and scorn Fill with tempests all my morn, And with jealousies and fears        Fill my pleasant nights with tears?  ‘Seven of my sweet loves thy knife Has bereavèd of their life. Their marble tombs I built with tears, And with cold and shuddering fears.         ‘Seven more loves weep night and day Round the tombs where my loves lay, And seven more loves attend each night Around my couch with torches bright.  ‘And seven more loves in my bed        Crown with wine my mournful head, Pitying and forgiving all Thy transgressions great and small.  ‘When wilt thou return and view My loves, and them to life renew?        When wilt thou return and live? When wilt thou pity as I forgive?’  ‘O’er my sins thou sit and moan: Hast thou no sins of thy own? O’er my sins thou sit and weep,        And lull thy own sins fast asleep.  ‘What transgressions I commit Are for thy transgressions fit. They thy harlots, thou their slave; And my bed becomes their grave.         ‘Never, never, I return: Still for victory I burn. Living, thee alone I’ll have; And when dead I’ll be thy grave.  ‘Thro’ the Heaven and Earth and Hell        Thou shalt never, quell: I will fly and thou pursue: Night and morn the flight renew.’  ‘Poor, pale, pitiable form That I follow in a storm;        Iron tears and groans of lead Bind around my aching head.  ‘Till I turn from Female love And root up the Infernal Grove, I shall never worthy be        To step into Eternity.  ‘And, to end thy cruel mocks, Annihilate thee on the rocks, And another form create To be subservient to my fate.         ‘Let us agree to give up love, And root up the Infernal Grove; Then shall we return and see The worlds of happy Eternity.  ‘And throughout all Eternity        I forgive you, you forgive me. As our dear Redeemer said: “This the Wine, and this the Bread.”’ But In The Wine-Presses The Human Grapes Sing NotNor Dance     But in the Wine-presses the human grapes sing not nor dance:   They howl and writhe in shoals of torment, in fierce flames consuming,   In chains of iron and in dungeons circled with ceaseless fires,   In pits and dens and shades of death, in shapes of torment and woe:   The plates and screws and racks and saws and cords and fires and cisterns   The cruel joys of Luvah's Daughters, lacerating with knives   And whips their victims, and the deadly sport of Luvah's Sons.    They dance around the dying and they drink the howl and groan,   They catch the shrieks in cups of gold, they hand them to one another: These are the sports of love, and these the sweet delights of amorous play, Tears of the grape, the death sweat of the cluster, the last sigh Of the mild youth who listens to the luring songs of Luvah.---- Cradle Song Sleep, sleep, beauty bright,Dreaming in the joys of night;Sleep, sleep; in thy sleepLittle sorrows sit and weep. Sweet babe, in thy faceSoft desires I can trace,Secret joys and secret smiles,Little pretty infant wiles. As thy softest limbs I feelSmiles as of the morning stealO'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breastWhere thy little heart doth rest. O the cunning wiles that creepIn thy little heart asleep!When thy little heart doth wake,Then the dreadful night shall break. Day The Sun arises in the East,Cloth'd in robes of blood and gold;Swords and spears and wrath increastAll around his bosom roll'dCrown'd with warlike fires and raging desires. Divine Image To Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,  All pray in their distress,And to these virtues of delight  Return their thankfulness. For Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,  Is God our Father dear;And Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love,  Is man, his child and care. For Mercy has a human heart  Pity, a human face;And Love, the human form divine;  And Peace, the human dress. Then every man, of every clime,  That prays in his distress,Prays to the human form divine:  Love, Mercy, Pity, Peace. And all must love the human form,  In heathen, Turk, or Jew.Where Mercy, Love, and Pity dwell,  There God is dwelling too. Earth's Answer Earth raised up her headFrom the darkness dread and drear,Her light fled,Stony, dread,And her locks covered with grey despair. 'Prisoned on watery shore,Starry jealousy does keep my denCold and hoar;Weeping o're,I hear the father of the ancient men. 'Selfish father of men!Cruel, jealous, selfish fear!Can delight,Chained in night,The virgins of youth and morning bear?  'Does spring hide its joy,When buds and blossoms grow?Does the sowerSow by night,Or the plowman in darkness plough? 'Break this heavy chain,That does freeze my bones around!Selfish, vain,Eternal bane,That free love with bondage bound.' England! Awake! Awake! Awake! England! awake! awake! awake!      Jerusalem thy Sister calls!  Why wilt thou sleep the sleep of death      And close her from thy ancient walls?   Thy hills and valleys felt her feet      Gently upon their bosoms move:  Thy gates beheld sweet Zion's ways:      Then was a time of joy and love.   And now the time returns again:     Our souls exult, and London's towers Receive the Lamb of God to dwell     In England's green and pleasant bowers. Eternity He who binds to himself a joyDoes the winged life destroy;But he who kisses the joy as it fliesLives in eternity's sun rise. Fair Elanor The bell struck one, and shook the silent tower;The graves give up their dead: fair ElenorWalk'd by the castle gate, and lookèd in.A hollow groan ran thro' the dreary vaults.She shriek'd aloud, and sunk upon the steps,On the cold stone her pale cheeks. Sickly smellsOf death issue as from a sepulchre,And all is silent but the sighing vaults. Chill Death withdraws his hand, and she revives;Amaz'd, she finds herself upon her feet,And, like a ghost, thro' narrow passagesWalking, feeling the cold walls with her hands. Fancy returns, and now she thinks of bonesAnd grinning skulls, and corruptible deathWrapp'd in his shroud; and now fancies she hearsDeep sighs, and sees pale sickly ghosts gliding. At length, no fancy but realityDistracts her. A rushing sound, and the feetOf one that fled, approaches--Ellen stoodLike a dumb statue, froze to stone with fear. The wretch approaches, crying: `The deed is done;Take this, and send it by whom thou wilt send;It is my life--send it to Elenor:--He's dead, and howling after me for blood! `Take this,' he cried; and thrust into her armsA wet napkin, wrapp'd about; then rush'dPast, howling: she receiv'd into her armsPale death, and follow'd on the wings of fear. They pass'd swift thro' the outer gate; the wretch,Howling, leap'd o'er the wall into the moat,Stifling in mud. Fair Ellen pass'd the bridge,And heard a gloomy voice cry `Is it done?' As the deer wounded, Ellen flew overThe pathless plain; as the arrows that flyBy night, destruction flies, and strikes in darkness.She fled from fear, till at her house arriv'd. Her maids await her; on her bed she falls,That bed of joy, where erst her lord hath press'd:`Ah, woman's fear!' she cried; `ah, cursèd duke!Ah, my dear lord! ah, wretched Elenor! `My lord was like a flower upon the browsOf lusty May! Ah, life as frail as flower!O ghastly death! withdraw thy cruel hand,Seek'st thou that flow'r to deck thy horrid temples? `My lord was like a star in highest heav'nDrawn down to earth by spells and wickedness;My lord was like the opening eyes of dayWhen western winds creep softly o'er the flowers; `But he is darken'd; like the summer's noonClouded; fall'n like the stately tree, cut down;The breath of heaven dwelt among his leaves.O Elenor, weak woman, fill'd with woe!' Thus having spoke, she raisèd up her head,And saw the bloody napkin by her side,Which in her arms she brought; and now, tenfoldMore terrifièd, saw it unfold itself. Her eyes were fix'd; the bloody cloth unfolds,Disclosing to her sight the murder'd headOf her dear lord, all ghastly pale, clottedWith gory blood; it groan'd, and thus it spake: `O Elenor, I am thy husband's head,Who, sleeping on the stones of yonder tower,Was 'reft of life by the accursèd duke!A hirèd villain turn'd my sleep to death! `O Elenor, beware the cursèd duke;O give not him thy hand, now I am dead;He seeks thy love; who, coward, in the night,Hirèd a villain to bereave my life.' She sat with dead cold limbs, stiffen'd to stone;She took the gory head up in her arms;She kiss'd the pale lips; she had no tears to shed;She hugg'd it to her breast, and groan'd her last. From Milton: And Did Those Feet And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded here,Among these dark Satanic Mills? Bring me my Bow of burning gold:Bring me my Arrows of desire:Bring me my Spear:O clouds unfold!Bring me my Chariot of fire! I will not cease from Mental Fight,Nor shall my Sword sleep in my hand,Till we have built JerusalemIn England's green &amp; pleasant Land. Gwin King Of Norway Come, kings, and listen to my song:When Gwin, the son of Nore,Over the nations of the NorthHis cruel sceptre bore;The nobles of the land did feedUpon the hungry poor;They tear the poor man's lamb, and driveThe needy from their door. `The land is desolate; our wivesAnd children cry for bread;Arise, and pull the tyrant down!Let Gwin be humblèd!' Gordred the giant rous'd himselfFrom sleeping in his cave;He shook the hills, and in the cloudsThe troubl'd banners wave. Beneath them roll'd, like tempests black,The num'rous sons of blood;Like lions' whelps, roaring abroad,Seeking their nightly food. Down Bleron's hills they dreadful rush,Their cry ascends the clouds;The trampling horse and clanging armsLike rushing mighty floods! Their wives and children, weeping loud,Follow in wild array,Howling like ghosts, furious as wolvesIn the bleak wintry day. `Pull down the tyrant to the dust,Let Gwin be humblèd,'They cry, `and let ten thousand livesPay for the tyrant's head.' From tow'r to tow'r the watchmen cry,`O Gwin, the son of Nore,Arouse thyself! the nations, blackLike clouds, come rolling o'er!' Gwin rear'd his shield, his palace shakes,His chiefs come rushing round;Each, like an awful thunder cloud,With voice of solemn sound: Like rearèd stones around a graveThey stand around the King;Then suddenly each seiz'd his spear,And clashing steel does ring. The husbandman does leave his ploughTo wade thro' fields of gore;The merchant binds his brows in steel,And leaves the trading shore; The shepherd leaves his mellow pipe,And sounds the trumpet shrill;The workman throws his hammer downTo heave the bloody bill. Like the tall ghost of BarratonWho sports in stormy sky,Gwin leads his host, as black as nightWhen pestilence does fly, With horses and with chariots--And all his spearmen b  oldMarch to the sound of mournful song,Like clouds around him roll'd. Gwin lifts his hand--the nations halt;`Prepare for war!' he cries--Gordred appears!--his frowning browTroubles our northern skies. The armies stand, like balancesHeld in th' Almighty's hand;--`Gwin, thou hast fill'd thy measure up:Thou'rt swept from out the land.' And now the raging armies rush'dLike warring mighty seas;The heav'ns are shook with roaring war,The dust ascends the skies! Earth smokes with blood, and groans and shakesTo drink her children's gore,A sea of blood; nor can the eyeSee to the trembling shore! And on the verge of this wild seaFamine and death doth cry;The cries of women and of babesOver the field doth fly. The King is seen raging afar,With all his men of might;Like blazing comets scattering deathThro' the red fev'rous night. Beneath his arm like sheep they die,And groan upon the plain;The battle faints, and bloody menFight upon hills of slain. Now death is sick, and riven menLabour and toil for life;Steed rolls on steed, and shield on shield,Sunk in this sea of strife! The god of war is drunk with blood;The earth doth faint and fail;The stench of blood makes sick the heav'ns;Ghosts glut the throat of hell! O what have kings to answer forBefore that awful throne;When thousand deaths for vengeance cry,And ghosts accusing groan! Like blazing comets in the skyThat shake the stars of light,Which drop like fruit unto the earthThro' the fierce burning night; Like these did Gwin and Gordred meet,And the first blow decides;Down from the brow unto the breastGordred his head divides! Gwin fell: the sons of Norway fled,All that remain'd alive;The rest did fill the vale of death,For them the eagles strive. The river Dorman roll'd their bloodInto the northern sea;Who mourn'd his sons, and overwhelm'dThe pleasant south country. Hear The Voice HEAR the voice of the Bard,Who present, past, and future, sees;Whose ears have heardThe Holy WordThat walk'd among the ancient trees; Calling the lapsed soul,And weeping in the evening dew;That might controlThe starry pole,And fallen, fallen light renew! 'O Earth, O Earth, return!Arise from out the dewy grass!Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumbrous mass. 'Turn away no more;Why wilt thou turn away?The starry floor,The watery shore,Is given thee till the break of day.' Hear The Voice Of The Bard Hear the voice of the Bard !Who present, past, and future sees;Whose ears have heardThe Holy Word,That walked among the ancient trees, Calling the lapsed soul,And weeping in the evening dew;That might controlThe starry pole,And fallen, fallen, light renew! 'O Earth, O Earth, return!Arise from out the dewy grass;Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumberous mass. 'Turn away no more;Why wilt thou turn away?The starry floor,The watery shore,Is given thee till the break of day.' Holy Thursday (Experience) Is this a holy thing to see.In a rich and fruitful land.Babes reduced to misery.Fed with cold and usurous hand? Is that trembling cry a song?Can it be a song of joy?And so many children poor?It is a land of poverty! And their sun does never shine.And their fields are bleak &amp; bare.And their ways are fill'd with thornsIt is eternal winter there. For where-e'er the sun does shine.And where-e'er the rain does fall:Babe can never hunger there,Nor poverty the mind appall. Holy Thursday (Innocence) Twas on a Holy Thursday their innocent faces cleanThe children walking two &amp; two in red &amp; blue &amp; greenGrey headed beadles walked before with wands as white as snowTill into the high dome of Pauls they like Thames waters flow O what a multitude they seemed these flowers of London townSeated in companies they sit with radiance all their ownThe hum of multitudes was there but multitudes of lambsThousands of little boys &amp; girls raising their innocent hands Now like a mighty wind they raise to heaven the voice of songOr like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven amongBeneath them sit the aged men wise guardians of the poorThen cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door How Sweet I Roam'D How sweet I roam'd from field to field,And tasted all the summer's pride'Til the prince of love beheldWho in the sunny beams did glide! He shew'd me lilies for my hairAnd blushing roses for my brow;He led me through his garden fair,Where all his golden pleasures grow. With sweet May dews my wings were wet,And Phoebus fir'd my vocal rageHe caught me in his silken net,And shut me in his golden cage. He loves to sit and hear me sing,Then, laughing, sports and plays with me;Then stretches out my golden wing,And mocks my loss of liberty. I Heard An Angel      I heard an Angel singing    When the day was springing,    'Mercy, Pity, Peace    Is the world's release.'     Thus he sung all day    Over the new mown hay,    Till the sun went down    And haycocks looked brown.     I heard a Devil curse  Over the heath and the furze,  'Mercy could be no more,  If there was nobody poor,   And pity no more could be,  If all were as happy as we.'  At his curse the sun went down,  And the heavens gave a frown.   Down pour'd the heavy rain  Over the new reap'd grain ...  And Miseries' increase  Is Mercy, Pity, Peace. I Rose Up At The Dawn Of Day I rose up at the dawn of day--`Get thee away! get thee away!Pray'st thou for riches? Away! away!This is the Throne of Mammon grey.' Said I: This, sure, is very odd;I took it to be the Throne of God.For everything besides I have:It is only for riches that I can crave. I have mental joy, and mental health,And mental friends, and mental wealth;I've a wife I love, and that loves me;I've all but riches bodily. I am in God's presence night and day,And He never turns His face away;The accuser of sins by my side doth stand,And he holds my money-bag in his hand. For my worldly things God makes him pay,And he'd pay for more if to him I would pray;And so you may do the worst you can do;Be assur'd, Mr. Devil, I won't pray to you. Then if for riches I must not pray,God knows, I little of prayers need say;So, as a church is known by its steeple,If I pray it must be for other people. He says, if I do not worship him for a God,I shall eat coarser food, and go worse shod;So, as I don't value such things as these,You must do, Mr. Devil, just as God please. I Saw A Chapel      I saw a chapel all of gold    That none did dare to enter in,    And many weeping stood without,    Weeping, mourning, worshipping.     I saw a serpent rise between    The white pillars of the door,    And he forc'd and forc'd and forc'd,    Down the golden hinges tore.     And along the pavement sweet,  Set with pearls and rubies bright,  All his slimy length he drew  Till upon the altar white   Vomiting his poison out  On the bread and on the wine.  So I turn'd into a sty  And laid me down among the swine. I See The Four-Fold Man I see the Four-fold Man, The Humanity in deadly sleep  And its fallen Emanation, the Spectre and its cruel Shadow.  I see the Past, Present and Future existing all at once  Before me. O Divine Spirit, sustain me on thy wings,  That I may awake Albion from his long and cold repose;  For Bacon and Newton, sheath'd in dismal steel, their terrors hang  Like iron scourges over Albion: reasonings like vast serpents  Infold around my limbs, bruising my minute articulations.   I turn my eyes to the schools and universities of Europe And there behold the Loom of Locke, whose Woof rages dire, Wash'd by the Water-wheels of Newton: black the cloth In heavy wreaths folds over every nation: cruel works Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic Moving by compulsion each other, not as those in Eden, which, Wheel within wheel, in freedom revolve in harmony and peace. If It Is True What The Prophets Write If it is true, what the Prophets write,That the heathen gods are all stocks and stones,Shall we, for the sake of being polite,Feed them with the juice of our marrow-bones? And if Bezaleel and Aholiab drewWhat the finger of God pointed to their view,Shall we suffer the Roman and Grecian rodsTo compel us to worship them as gods? They stole them from the temple of the LordAnd worshipp'd them that they might make inspirèd art abhorr'd; The wood and stone were call'd the holy things,And their sublime intent given to their kings.All the atonements of Jehovah spurn'd,And criminals to sacrifices turn'd. Infant Joy 'I have no name;I am but two days old.'What shall I call thee?'I happy am,Joy is my name.'Sweet joy befall thee! Pretty joy!Sweet joy, but two days old.Sweet Joy I call thee:Thou dost smile,I sing the while;Sweet joy befall thee! Infant Sorrow My mother groaned, my father wept,Into the dangerous world I leapt;Helpless, naked, piping loud,Like a fiend hid in a cloud. Struggling in my father's hands,Striving against my swaddling bands,Bound and weary, I thought bestTo sulk upon my mother's breast. Introduction To The Songs Of Innocence Piping down the valleys wild,  Piping songs of pleasant glee,On a cloud I saw a child,  And he laughing said to me: 'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'  So I piped with merry cheer.'Piper, pipe that song again;'  So I piped: he wept to hear. 'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;  Sing thy songs of happy cheer:!'So I sang the same again,  While he wept with joy to hear. 'Piper, sit thee down and write  In a book, that all may read.'So he vanish'd from my sight;  And I pluck'd a hollow reed, And I made a rural pen,  And I stain'd the water clear,And I wrote my happy songs  Every child may joy to hear. Jerusalem And did those feet in ancient timeWalk upon England's mountains green?And was the holy Lamb of GodOn England's pleasant pastures seen? And did the Countenance DivineShine forth upon our clouded hills?And was Jerusalem builded hereAmong these dark Satanic mills? Bring me my bow of burning gold:Bring me my arrows of desire:Bring me my spear: O clouds unfold!Bring me my chariot of fire. I will not cease from mental fight,Nor shall my sword sleep in my handTill we have built JerusalemIn England's green and pleasant land. Jerusalem: England! Awake! Awake! Awake!      England! awake! awake! awake!        Jerusalem thy Sister calls!    Why wilt thou sleep the sleep of death        And close her from thy ancient walls?     Thy hills and valleys felt her feet        Gently upon their bosoms move:    Thy gates beheld sweet Zion's ways:        Then was a time of joy and love.     And now the time returns again:      Our souls exult, and London's towers  Receive the Lamb of God to dwell      In England's green and pleasant bowers. Jerusalem: I See The Four-Fold Man, The Humanity InDeadly Sleep      I see the Four-fold Man, The Humanity in deadly sleep    And its fallen Emanation, the Spectre and its cruel Shadow.    I see the Past, Present and Future existing all at once    Before me. O Divine Spirit, sustain me on thy wings,    That I may awake Albion from his long and cold repose;    For Bacon and Newton, sheath'd in dismal steel, their terrors hang    Like iron scourges over Albion: reasonings like vast serpents    Infold around my limbs, bruising my minute articulations.     I turn my eyes to the schools and universities of Europe  And there behold the Loom of Locke, whose Woof rages dire,  Wash'd by the Water-wheels of Newton: black the cloth  In heavy wreaths folds over every nation: cruel works  Of many Wheels I view, wheel without wheel, with cogs tyrannic  Moving by compulsion each other, not as those in Eden, which,  Wheel within wheel, in freedom revolve in harmony and peace. Laughing Song When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy,And the dimpling stream runs laughing by;When the air does laugh with our merry wit,And the green hill laughs with the noise of it; when the meadows laugh with lively green,And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene,When Mary and Susan and EmilyWith their sweet round mouths sing 'Ha, ha he!' When the painted birds laugh in the shade,Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:Come live, and be merry, and join with me,To sing the sweet chorus of 'Ha, ha, he!' London I wandered through each chartered street,  Near where the chartered Thames does flow,A mark in every face I meet,  Marks of weakness, marks of woe. In every cry of every man,  In every infant's cry of fear,In every voice, in every ban,  The mind-forged manacles I hear: How the chimney-sweeper's cry  Every blackening church appals,And the hapless soldier's sigh  Runs in blood down palace-walls. But most, through midnight streets I hear  How the youthful harlot's curseBlasts the new-born infant's tear,  And blights with plagues the marriage-hearse. Love And Harmony Love and harmony combine,And round our souls entwineWhile thy branches mix with mine,And our roots together join. Joys upon our branches sit,Chirping loud and singing sweet;Like gentle streams beneath our feetInnocence and virtue meet. Thou the golden fruit dost bear,I am clad in flowers fair;Thy sweet boughs perfume the air,And the turtle buildeth there. There she sits and feeds her young,Sweet I hear her mournful song;And thy lovely leaves among,There is love, I hear his tongue. There his charming nest doth lay,There he sleeps the night away;There he sports along the day,And doth among our branches play. Love's Secret Never seek to tell thy love, Love that never told can be;For the gentle wind does moveSilently, invisibly. I told my love, I told my love,I told her all my heart;Trembling, cold, in ghastly fears,Ah! she did depart! Soon as she was gone from me,A traveler came by,Silently, invisiblyHe took her with a sigh. Mad Song The wild winds weep   And the night is a-cold;Come hither, Sleep,   And my griefs infold:But lo! the morning peeps   Over the eastern steeps,And the rustling birds of dawnThe earth do scorn. Lo! to the vault   Of paved heaven,With sorrow fraught   My notes are driven:They strike the ear of night,   Make weep the eyes of day;They make mad the roaring winds,   And with tempests play. Like a fiend in a cloud,   With howling woe,After night I do crowd,   And with night will go;I turn my back to the east,From whence comforts have increas'd;For light doth seize my brainWith frantic pain. Milton: And Did Those Feet In Ancient Time      And did those feet in ancient time    Walk upon England's mountains green?    And was the holy Lamb of God    On England's pleasant pastures seen?     And did the Countenance Divine    Shine forth upon our clouded hills?    And was Jerusalem builded here    Among these dark Satanic mills?     Bring me my bow of burning gold:  Bring me my arrows of desire:  Bring me my spear: O clouds unfold!  Bring me my chariot of fire.   I will not cease from mental fight,  Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand  Till we have built Jerusalem  In England's green and pleasant land. Milton: But In The Wine-Presses The Human GrapesSing Not Nor Dance      But in the Wine-presses the human grapes sing not nor dance:    They howl and writhe in shoals of torment, in fierce flames consuming,    In chains of iron and in dungeons circled with ceaseless fires,    In pits and dens and shades of death, in shapes of torment and woe:    The plates and screws and racks and saws and cords and fires and cisterns    The cruel joys of Luvah's Daughters, lacerating with knives    And whips their victims, and the deadly sport of Luvah's Sons.     They dance around the dying and they drink the howl and groan,    They catch the shrieks in cups of gold, they hand them to one another:  These are the sports of love, and these the sweet delights of amorous play,  Tears of the grape, the death sweat of the cluster, the last sigh  Of the mild youth who listens to the luring songs of Luvah. Mock On, Mock On, Voltaire, Rousseau Mock on, mock on, Voltaire, Rousseau;Mock on, mock on; 'tis all in vain!You throw the sand against the wind,And the wind blows it back again.And every sand becomes a gemReflected in the beams divine;Blown back they blind the mocking eye,But still in Israel's paths they shine. The Atoms of DemocritusAnd Newton's Particles of LightAre sands upon the Red Sea shore,Where Israel's tents do shine so bright. My Pretty Rose Tree A flower was offered to me,  Such a flower as May never bore;But I said 'I've a pretty rose tree,'  And I passed the sweet flower o'er. Then I went to my pretty rose tree,  To tend her by day and by night;But my rose turned away with jealousy,  And her thorns were my only delight. Night The sun descending in the west,The evening star does shine;The birds are silent in their nest,And I must seek for mine.    The moon, like a flower,    In heaven's high bower,    With silent delight    Sits and smiles on the night. Farewell, green fields and happy groves,Where flocks have took delight.Where lambs have nibbled, silent movesThe feet of angels bright;    Unseen they pour blessing,    And joy without ceasing,    On each bud and blossom,    And each sleeping bosom. They look in every thoughtless nest,Where birds are covered warm;They visit caves of every beast,To keep them all from harm.    If they see any weeping    That should have been sleeping,    They pour sleep on their head,    And sit down by their bed. When wolves and tigers howl for prey,They pitying stand and weep;Seeking to drive their thirst away,And keep them from the sheep.    But if they rush dreadful,    The angels, most heedful,    Receive each mild spirit,    New worlds to inherit. And there the lion's ruddy eyesShall flow with tears of gold,And pitying the tender cries,And walking round the fold,    Saying, 'Wrath, by His meekness,    And, by His health, sickness    Is driven away    From our immortal day. 'And now beside thee, bleating lamb,I can lie down and sleep;Or think on Him who bore thy name,Graze after thee and weep.    For, washed in life's river,    My bright mane for ever    Shall shine like the gold    As I guard o'er the fold.' Now Art Has Lost Its Mental Charms `Now Art has lost its mental charmsFrance shall subdue the world in arms.'So spoke an Angel at my birth;Then said `Descend thou upon earth,Renew the Arts on Britain's shore,And France shall fall down and adore.With works of art their armies meetAnd War shall sink beneath thy feet.But if thy nation Arts refuse,And if they scorn the immortal Muse,France shall the arts of peace restoreAnd save thee from the ungrateful shore.' Spirit who lov'st Britannia's IsleRound which the fiends of commerce smile -- Nurse's Song (Innocence) When voices of children are heard on the greenAnd laughing is heard on the hill,My heart is at rest within my breastAnd everything else is still Then come home my children the sun is gone downAnd the dews of night ariseCome come leave off play, and let us awayTill the morning appears in the skies No no let us play, for it is yet dayAnd we cannot go to sleepBesides in the sky, the little birds flyAnd the hills are all covered with sheep Well well go &amp; play till the light fades awayAnd then go home to bedThe little ones leaped &amp; shouted &amp; laugh'dAnd all the hills echoed On Another's Sorrow Can I see another's woe,And not be in sorrow too?Can I see another's grief,And not seek for kind relief? Can I see a falling tear,And not feel my sorrow's share?Can a father see his childWeep, nor be with sorrow filled? Can a mother sit and hearAn infant groan, an infant fear?No, no!  never can it be!Never, never can it be! And can He who smiles on allHear the wren with sorrows small,Hear the small bird's grief and care,Hear the woes that infants bear -- And not sit beside the next,Pouring pity in their breast,And not sit the cradle near,Weeping tear on infant's tear? And not sit both night and day,Wiping all our tears away?Oh no! never can it be!Never, never can it be! He doth give his joy to all:He becomes an infant small,He becomes a man of woe,He doth feel the sorrow too. Think not thou canst sigh a sigh,And thy Maker is not by:Think not thou canst weep a tear,And thy Maker is not year. Oh He gives to us his joy,That our grief He may destroy:Till our grief is fled an goneHe doth sit by us and moan. Preludium To Europe The nameless shadowy female rose from out the breast of Orc, Her snaky hair brandishing in the winds of Enitharmon; And thus her voice arose:     'O mother Enitharmon, wilt thou bring forth other sons?   To cause my name to vanish, that my place may not be found,   For I am faint with travail,    Like the dark cloud disburden'd in the day of dismal thunder.     My roots are brandish'd in the heavens, my fruits in earth beneath    Surge, foam and labour into life, first born and first consum'd!  Consumed and consuming!  Then why shouldst thou, accursed mother, bring me into life?   I wrap my turban of thick clouds around my lab'ring head,  And fold the sheety waters as a mantle round my limbs;  Yet the red sun and moon  And all the overflowing stars rain down prolific pains.  Unwilling I look up to heaven, unwilling count the stars:  Sitting in fathomless abyss of my immortal shrineI seize their burning power  And bring forth howling terrors, all devouring fiery kings,   Devouring and devoured, roaming on dark and desolate mountains,  In forests of eternal death, shrieking in hollow trees.  Ah mother Enitharmon!  Stamp not with solid form this vig'rous progeny of fires.   I bring forth from my teeming bosom myriads of flames,  And thou dost stamp them with a signet; then they roam abroad  And leave me void as death.  Ah! I am drown'd in shady woe and visionary joy.   And who shall bind the infinite with an eternal band?  To compass it with swaddling bands? and who shall cherish it  With milk and honey?  I see it smile, and I roll inward, and my voice is past.'      She ceased, and roll'd her shady clouds    Into the secret place. Reeds Of Innocence Piping down the valleys wild,Piping songs of pleasant glee,On a cloud I saw a child,And he laughing said to me: 'Pipe a song about a Lamb!'So I piped with merry cheer.'Piper, pipe that song again;'So I piped: he wept to hear. 'Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;Sing thy songs of happy cheer!'So I sung the same again,While he wept with joy to hear. 'Piper, sit thee down and writeIn a book that all may read.'So he vanish'd from my sight;And I pluck'd a hollow reed, And I made a rural pen,And I stain'd the water clear,And I wrote my happy songsEvery child may joy to hear. Several Questions Answered What is it men in women do require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire.What is it women do in men require?The lineaments of Gratified Desire. The look of love alarmsBecause 'tis fill'd with fire;But the look of soft deceitShall Win the lover's hire. Soft Deceit &amp; Idleness,These are Beauty's sweetest dress. He who binds to himself a joyDot the winged life destroy;But he who kisses the joy as it fliesLives in Eternity's sunrise.  Submitted by Josh Horn Silent, Silent Night Silent, silent night,Quench the holy lightOf thy torches bright; For possessed of DayThousand spirits strayThat sweet joys betray. Why should joys be sweetUsed with deceit,Nor with sorrows meet? But an honest joyDoes itself destroyFor a harlot coy. Sleep! Sleep! Beauty Bright Sleep! sleep! beauty bright,Dreaming o'er the joys of night;Sleep! sleep! in thy sleepLittle sorrows sit and weep. Sweet Babe, in thy faceSoft desires I can trace,Secret joys and secret smiles,Little pretty infant wiles. As thy softest limbs I feel,Smiles as of the morning stealO'er thy cheek, and o'er thy breastWhere thy little heart does rest. O! the cunning wiles that creepIn thy little heart asleep.When thy little heart does wakeThen the dreadful lightnings break, From thy cheek and from thy eye,O'er the youthful harvests nigh.Infant wiles and infant smilesHeaven and Earth of peace beguiles. Song My silks and fine array,My smiles and languish'd air,By love are driv'n away;And mournful lean DespairBrings me yew to deck my grave;Such end true lovers have. His face is fair as heav'nWhen springing buds unfold;O why to him was't giv'nWhose heart is wintry cold?His breast is love's all-worshipp'd tomb,Where all love's pilgrims come. Bring me an axe and spade,Bring me a winding sheet;When I my grave have madeLet winds and tempests beat:Then down I'll lie as cold as clay.True love doth pass away! Song: Memory, Hither Come Memory, hither come,      And tune your merry notes;  And, while upon the wind      Your music floats,   I'll pore upon the stream      Where sighing lovers dream,  And fish for fancies as they pass      Within the watery glass.   I'll drink of the clear stream,     And hear the linnet's song; And there I'll lie and dream     The day along:  And, when night comes, I'll go     To places fit for woe, Walking along the darken'd valley     With silent Melancholy. Songs Of Experience: Introduction Hear the voice of the Bard!Who Present, Past, &amp; Future seesWhose ears have heardThe Holy Word,That walk'd among the ancient trees. Calling the lapsed SoulAnd weeping in the evening dew;That might controll.The starry pole;And fallen fallen light renew! O Earth O Earth return!Arise from out the dewy grass;Night is worn,And the mornRises from the slumbrous mass. Turn away no more:Why wilt thou turn awayThe starry floorThe watery shoreIs given thee till the break of day. Songs Of Innocence: Introduction Piping down the valleys wildPiping songs of pleasant gleeOn a cloud I saw a child.And he laughing said to me. Pipe a song about a Lamb:So I piped with merry chear,Piper, pipe that song again--So I piped, he wept to hear. Drop thy pipe thy happy pipeSing thy songs of happy chear,So I sung the same againWhile he wept with joy to hear Piper sit thee down and writeIn a book that all may read--So he vanished from my sightAnd I pluck'd a hollow reed. And I made a rural pen,And I stained the water clear,And I wrote my happy songs,Every child may joy to hear. Spring Sound the flute!     Now it's mute!     Bird's delight,     Day and night,     Nightingale,     In the dale,     Lark in sky,--     Merrily,Merrily merrily, to welcome in the year.      Little boy,     Full of joy;     Little girl,     Sweet and small;     Cock does crow,     So do you;     Merry voice,     Infant noise;Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year.      Little lamb,     Here I am;     Come and lick     My white neck;     Let me pull     Your soft wool;     Let me kiss     Your soft face;Merrily, merrily, to welcome in the year. The Angel I dreamt a dream!  What can it mean?And that I was a maiden QueenGuarded by an Angel mild:Witless woe was ne'er beguiled! And I wept both night and day,And he wiped my tears away;And I wept both day and night,And hid from him my heart's delight. So he took his wings, and fled;Then the morn blushed rosy red.I dried my tears, and armed my fearsWith ten-thousand shields and spears. Soon my Angel came again;I was armed, he came in vain;For the time of youth was fled,And grey hairs were on my head. The Angel That Presided O'Er My Birth The Angel that presided o'er my birthSaid, 'Little creature, form'd of Joy and Mirth,'Go love without the help of any Thing on Earth.' The Birds He. Where thou dwellest, in what grove,Tell me Fair One, tell me Love;Where thou thy charming nest dost build,O thou pride of every field!She. Yonder stands a lonely tree,There I live and mourn for thee;Morning drinks my silent tear,And evening winds my sorrow bear. He. O thou summer's harmony,I have liv'd and mourn'd for thee;Each day I mourn along the wood,And night hath heard my sorrows loud. She. Dost thou truly long for me?And am I thus sweet to thee?Sorrow now is at an end,O my Lover and my Friend! He. Come, on wings of joy we'll flyTo where my bower hangs on high;Come, and make thy calm retreatAmong green leaves and blossoms sweet. The Blossom Merry, merry sparrow!Under leaves so greenA happy blossomSees you, swift as arrow,Seek your cradle narrow,Near my bosom.Pretty, pretty robin!Under leaves so greenA happy blossomHears you sobbing, sobbing,Pretty, pretty robin,Near my bosom.  The Chimney Sweeper: A Little Black Thing AmongThe Snow A little black thing among the snow,Crying 'weep! 'weep!' in notes of woe!'Where are thy father and mother? say?''They are both gone up to the church to pray. Because I was happy upon the heath,And smil'd among the winter's snow,They clothed me in the clothes of death,And taught me to sing the notes of woe. And because I am happy and dance and sing,They think they have done me no injury,And are gone to praise God and his Priest and King,Who make up a heaven of our misery.' The Chimney-Sweeper: When My Mother Died I WasVery Young When my mother died I was very young,And my father sold me while yet my tongueCould scarcely cry 'Weep! weep! weep! weep!'So your chimneys I sweep, and in soot I sleep. There's little Tom Dacre, who cried when his head,That curled like a lamb's back, was shaved; so I said,'Hush, Tom! never mind it, for, when your head's bare,You know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.' And so he was quiet, and that very night,As Tom was a-sleeping, he had such a sight! --That thousands of sweepers, Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack,Were all of them locked up in coffins of black. And by came an angel, who had a bright key,And he opened the coffins, and let them all free;Then down a green plain, leaping, laughing, they run,And wash in a river, and shine in the sun. Then naked and white, all their bags left behind,They rise upon clouds, and sport in the wind;And the Angel told Tom, if he'd be a good boy,He'd have God for his father, and never want joy. And so Tom awoke, and we rose in the dark,And got with our bags and our brushes to work.Though the morning was cold, Tom was happy and warm:So, if all do their duty, they need not fear harm. The Clod And The Pebble 'Love seeketh not itself to please,  Nor for itself hath any care, But for another gives its ease,And builds a heaven in hell's despair.' So sung a little clod of clay,Trodden with the cattle's feet;But a pebble of the brookWarbled out these meters meet: 'Love seeketh only Self to please,To bind another to its delight,Joys in another's loss of ease,And builds a hell in heaven's despite.' The Crystal Cabinet The Maiden caught me in the wild,Where I was dancing merrily;She put me into her Cabinet,And lock'd me up with a golden key. This cabinet is form'd of goldAnd pearl and crystal shining bright,And within it opens into a worldAnd a little lovely moony night. Another England there I sawAnother London with its Tower,Another Thames and other hills,And another pleasant Surrey bower. Another Maiden like herself,Translucent, lovely, shining clear,Threefold each in the other clos'dO, what a pleasant trembling fear! O, what a smile! a threefold smileFill'd me, that like a flame I burn'd;I bent to kiss the lovely Maid,And found a threefold kiss return'd. I strove to seize the inmost formWith ardor fierce and hands of flame,But burst the Crystal Cabinet,And like a weeping Babe became-- A weeping Babe upon the wild,And weeping Woman pale reclin'd,And in the outward air again,I fill'd with woes the passing wind.. The Echoing Green The sun does arise,And make happy the skies;The merry bells ringTo welcome the spring;The skylark and thrush,The birds of the bush,Sing louder aroundTo the bell's cheerful sound,While our sports shall be seenOn the Echoing Green. Old John with white hair,Does laugh away care,Sitting under the oak,Among the old folk.They laugh at our play,And soon they all say:'Such, such were the joysWhen we all, girls and boys,In our youth time were seenOn the Echoing Green.' Till the little ones, weary,No more can be merry;The sun does descend,And our sports have an end.Round the laps of their mothersMany sisters and brother,Like birds in their nest,Are ready for rest,And sport no more seenOn the darkening Green.. The Fairy ‘COME hither, my Sparrows,	My little arrows.	If a tear or a smile	Will a man beguile,	If an amorous delay	Clouds a sunshiny day,	If the step of a foot	Smites the heart to its root,	'Tis the marriage-ring…	Makes each fairy a king.'	   So a Fairy sung.	From the leaves I sprung;	He leap'd from the spray	To flee away;	But in my hat caught,	     He soon shall be taught.	Let him laugh, let him cry,	He's my Butterfly;	For I've pull'd out the sting	Of the marriage-ring. The Fly Little Fly,Thy summer's playMy thoughtless handHas brushed away. Am not IA fly like thee?Or art not thouA man like me? For I danceAnd drink, and sing,Till some blind handShall brush my wing. If thought is lifeAnd strength and breathAnd the wantOf thought is death; Then am IA happy fly,If I live,Or if I die. The Garden Of Love I went to the Garden of Love,  And saw what I never had seen;A Chapel was built in the midst,  Where I used to play on the green. And the gates of this Chapel were shut  And 'Thou shalt not,' writ over the door;So I turned to the Garden of Love  That so many sweet flowers bore. And I saw it was filled with graves,  And tombstones where flowers should be;And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds,  And binding with briars my joys and desires. The Grey Monk      'I die, I die!' the Mother said,     'My children die for lack of bread.     What more has the merciless Tyrant said?'     The Monk sat down on the stony bed.      The blood red ran from the Grey Monk's side,     His hands and feet were wounded wide,     His body bent, his arms and knees     Like to the roots of ancient trees.      His eye was dry; no tear could flow:   A hollow groan first spoke his woe.   He trembled and shudder'd upon the bed;   At length with a feeble cry he said:    'When God commanded this hand to write   In the studious hours of deep midnight,   He told me the writing I wrote should prove   The bane of all that on Earth I lov'd.    My Brother starv'd between two walls,   His Children's cry my soul appalls;   I mock'd at the rack and griding chain,   My bent body mocks their torturing pain.    Thy father drew his sword in the North,   With his thousands strong he marched forth;   Thy Brother has arm'd himself in steel   To avenge the wrongs thy Children feel.    But vain the Sword and vain the Bow,   They never can work War's overthrow.   The Hermit's prayer and the Widow's tear   Alone can free the World from fear.    For a Tear is an intellectual thing,   And a Sigh is the sword of an Angel King,   And the bitter groan of the Martyr's woe   Is an arrow from the Almighty's bow.    The hand of Vengeance found the bed   To which the Purple Tyrant fled;   The iron hand crush'd the Tyrant's head   And became a Tyrant in his stead.' The Human Abstract Pity would be no moreIf we did not make somebody Poor;And Mercy no more could beIf all were as happy as we. And mutual fear brings peace,Till the selfish loves increase:Then Cruelty knits a snare,And spreads his baits with care. He sits down with holy fears,And waters the grounds with tears;Then Humility takes its rootUnderneath his foot. Soon spreads the dismal shadeOf Mystery over his head;And the Catterpiller and FlyFeed on the Mystery. And it bears the fruit of Deceit,Ruddy and sweet to eat;And the Raven his nest has madeIn its thickest shade. The Gods of the earth and seaSought thro' Nature to find this Tree;But their search was all in vain:There grows one in the Human Brain. The Invocation Daughters of Beulah! Muses who inspire the Poet's Song,Record the journey of immortal Milton thro' your realmsOf terror and mild moony lustre, in soft Sexual delusionsOf varièd beauty, to delight the wanderer, and reposeHis burning thirst and freezing hunger! Come into my hand,By your mild power descending down the nerves of my right armFrom out the portals of my Brain, where by your ministryThe Eternal Great Humanity Divine planted His Paradise,And in it caus'd the Spectres of the Dead to take sweet formIn likeness of Himself. Tell also of the False Tongue, vegetatedBeneath your land of Shadows, of its sacrifices andIts offerings; even till Jesus, the image of the Invisible God,Became its prey; a curse, an offering, and an atonementFor Death Eternal, in the Heavens of Albion, and before the GatesOf Jerusalem his Emanation, in the Heavens beneath Beulah! The Lamb Little Lamb, who made thee?   Dost thou know who made thee?Gave thee life, and bid thee feed,By the stream and o'er the mead;Gave thee clothing of delight,Softest clothing, woolly, bright;Gave thee such a tender voice,Making all the vales rejoice?   Little Lamb, who made thee?   Dost thou know who made thee?    Little Lamb, I'll tell thee,   Little Lamb, I'll tell thee.He is called by thy name,For He calls Himself a Lamb.He is meek, and He is mild;He became a little child.I a child, and thou a lamb,We are called by His name.   Little Lamb, God bless thee!   Little Lamb, God bless thee! The Land Of Dreams Awake, awake, my little boy!Thou wast thy mother's only joy;Why dost thou weep in thy gentle sleep?Awake! thy father does thee keep. 'O, what land is the Land of Dreams?What are its mountains, and what are its streams?O father! I saw my mother there,Among the lilies by waters fair. 'Among the lambs, cloth? d in white,She walk'd with her Thomas in sweet delight.I wept for joy, like a dove I mourn;O! when shall I again return? ' Dear child, I also by pleasant streamsHave wander'd all night in the Land of Dreams;But tho' calm and warm the waters wide,I could not get to the other side. 'Father, O father! what do we hereIn this land of unbelief and fear?The Land of Dreams is better farAbove the light of the morning star.' The Lily The modest Rose puts forth a thorn,The humble sheep a threat'ning horn:While the Lily white shall in love delight,Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright. The Little Black Boy My mother bore me in the southern wild,  And I  am black, but oh my soul is white!White as an angel is the English child,  But I am black, as if bereaved of light. My mother taught me underneath a tree,  And, sitting down before the heat of day,She took me on her lap and kissed me,  And, pointed to the east, began to say: 'Look on the rising sun: there God does live,  And gives His light, and gives His heat away,And flowers and trees and beasts and men receive  Comfort in morning, joy in the noonday. 'And we are put on earth a little space,  That we may learn to bear the beams of loveAnd these black bodies and this sunburnt face  Is but a cloud, and like a shady grove. 'For when our souls have learn'd the heat to bear,  The cloud will vanish, we shall hear His voice,Saying, 'Come out from the grove, my love and care  And round my golden tent like lambs rejoice',' Thus did my mother say, and kissed me;And thus I say to little English boy.When I from black and he from white cloud free,And round the tent of God like lambs we joy I'll shade him from the heat till he can bearTo lean in joy upon our Father's knee;And then I'll stand and stroke his silver hair,And be like him, and he will then love me. The Little Boy Found The little boy lost in the lonely fen,  Led by the wandering light,Began to cry, but God, ever nigh,  Appeared like his father, in white. He kissed the child, and by the hand led,  And to his mother brought,Who in sorrow pale, through the lonely dale,  The little boy weeping sought. The Little Boy Lost 'Father, father, where are you going?  Oh do not walk so fast!Speak, father, speak to you little boy,  Or else I shall be lost.' The night was dark, no father was there,  The child was wet with dew;The mire was deep, and the child did weep,  And away the vapour flew. The Little Girl Found All the night in woe,Lyca's parents go:Over vallies deep.While the desarts weep. Tired and woe-begone.Hoarse with making moan:Arm in arm seven days.They trac'd the desert ways. Seven nights they sleep.Among shadows deep:And dream they see their childStarvdd in desart wild. Pale thro' pathless waysThe fancied image strays.Famish'd, weeping, weakWith hollow piteous shriek Rising from unrest,The trembling woman prest,With feet of weary woe;She could no further go. In his arms he bore.Her arm'd with sorrow sore:Till before their wayA couching lion lay. Turning back was vain,Soon his heavy mane.Bore them to the ground;Then he stalk'd around. Smelling to his prey,But their fears allay,When he licks their hands:And silent by them stands. They look upon his eyesFill'd with deep surprise:And wondering behold.A spirit arm'd in gold. On his head a crownOn his shoulders down,Flow'd his golden hair.Gone was all their care. Follow me he said,Weep not for the maid;In my palace deep.Lyca lies asleep. Then they followed,Where the vision led;And saw their sleeping child,Among tygers wild. To this day they dwellIn a lonely dellNor fear the wolvish howl,Nor the lion's growl. The Little Girl Lost In futurityI prophesy see.That the earth from sleep.(Grave the sentence deep) Shall arise and seekFor her maker meek:And the desart wildBecome a garden mild. In the southern clime,Where the summers primeNever fades away;Lovely Lyca lay. Seven summers oldLovely Lyca told,She had wandered long.Hearing wild birds song. Sweet sleep come to meUnderneath this tree;Do father, mother weep.--"Where can Lyca sleep". Lost in desert wildIs your little child.How can Lyca sleep.If her mother weep. If her heart does ake.Then let Lyca wake;If my mother sleep,Lyca shall not weep. Frowning, frowning night,O'er this desert bright.Let thy moon arise.While I close my eyes. Sleeping Lyca lay:While the beasts of prey,Come from caverns deep,View'd the maid asleep The kingly lion stoodAnd the virgin view'd:Then he gambolled roundO'er the hallowed ground: Leopards, tygers play,Round her as she lay;While the lion old,Bow'd his mane of gold, And her bosom lick,And upon her neck,From his eyes of flame,Ruby tears there came; While the lionessLoos'd her slender dress,And naked they convey'dTo caves the sleeping maid. The Little Vagabond Dear mother, dear mother, the church is cold,  But the ale-house is healthy and pleasant and warm;  Besides I can tell where I am used well,  Such usage in Heaven will never do well.     But if at the church they would give us some ale,  And a pleasant fire our souls to regale,  We'd sing and we'd pray all the live-long day,  Nor ever once wish from the church to stray.     Then the parson might preach, and drink, and sing,  And we'd be as happy as birds in the spring;  And modest Dame Lurch, who is always at church,  Would not have bandy children, nor fasting, nor birch.     And God, like a father rejoicing to see  His children as pleasant and happy as he,  Would have no more quarrel with the Devil or the barrel,  But kiss him, and give him both drink and apparel.  The Shepherd How sweet is the shepherd's sweet lot!From the morn to the evening he strays;He shall follow his sheep all the day,And his tongue shall be filled with praise. For he hears the lambs' innocent call,And he hears the ewes' tender reply;He is watchful while they are in peace,For they know when their shepherd is nigh. The Sick Rose      O Rose, thou art sick!    The invisible worm    That flies in the night,    In the howling storm,     Has found out thy bed    Of crimson joy:    And his dark secret love    Does thy life destroy. The Sky Is An Immortal Tent Built By The Sons Of Los The sky is an immortal tent built by the Sons of Los:  And every space that a man views around his dwelling-place  Standing on his own roof or in his garden on a mount  Of twenty-five cubits in height, such space is his universe:  And on its verge the sun rises and sets, the clouds bow  To meet the flat earth and the sea in such an order'd space:  The starry heavens reach no further, but here bend and set  On all sides, and the two Poles turn on their valves of gold:  And if he moves his dwelling-place, his heavens also move Where'er he goes, and all his neighbourhood bewail his loss. Such are the spaces called Earth and such its dimension. As to that false appearance which appears to the reasoner As of a globe rolling through voidness, it is a delusion of Ulro. The microscope knows not of this nor the telescope: they alter The ratio of the spectator's organs, but leave objects untouch'd. For every space larger than a red globule of Man's blood Is visionary, and is created by the Hammer of Los; And every space smaller than a globule of Man's blood opens Into Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow. The red globule is the unwearied sun by Los created To measure time and space to mortal men every morning. The Smile There is a Smile of LoveAnd there is a Smile of DeceitAnd there is a Smile of SmilesIn which these two Smiles meet And there is a Frown of HateAnd there is a Frown of disdainAnd there is a Frown of FrownsWhich you strive to forget in vain For it sticks in the Hearts deep CoreAnd it sticks in the deep Back boneAnd no Smile that ever was smildBut only one Smile alone That betwixt the Cradle & GraveIt only once Smild can beBut when it once is SmildTheres an end to all Misery The Song Of Los AFRICA I will sing you a song of Los. the Eternal Prophet:He sung it to four harps at the tables of Eternity.In heart-formed Africa.Urizen faded! Ariston shudderd!And thus the Song began Adam stood in the garden of Eden:And Noah on the mountains of Ararat;They saw Urizen give his Laws to the NationsBy the hands of the children of Los. Adam shudderd! Noah faded! black grew the sunny AfricanWhen Rintrah gave Abstract Philosophy to Brama in the East:(Night spoke to the Cloud!Lo these Human form'd spirits in smiling hipocrisy. WarAgainst one another; so let them War on; slaves to the eternal Elements)Noah shrunk, beneath the waters;Abram fled in fires from Chaldea;Moses beheld upon Mount Sinai forms of dark delusion: To Trismegistus. Palamabron gave an abstract Law:To Pythagoras Socrates & Plato. Times rolled on o'er all the sons of Har, time after timeOrc on Mount Atlas howld, chain'd down with the Chain of JealousyThen Oothoon hoverd over Judah & JerusalemAnd Jesus heard her voice (a man of sorrows) he recievdA Gospel from wretched Theotormon. The human race began to wither, for the healthy builtSecluded places, fearing the joys of LoveAnd the disease'd only propagated:So Antamon call'd up Leutha from her valleys of delight:And to Mahomet a loose Bible gave.But in the North, to Odin, Sotha gave a Code of War,Because of Diralada thinking to reclaim his joy. These were the Churches: Hospitals: Castles: Palaces:Like nets & gins & traps to catch the joys of EternityAnd all the rest a desart;Till like a dream Eternity was obliterated & erased. Since that dread day when Har and Heva fled.Because their brethren & sisters liv'd in War & Lust;And as they fled they shrunkInto two narrow doleful forms:Creeping in reptile flesh uponThe bosom of the ground:And all the vast of Nature shrunkBefore their shrunken eyes. Thus the terrible race of Los & Enitharmon gaveLaws & Religions to the sons of Har binding them moreAnd more to Earth: closing and restraining:Till a Philosophy of Five Senses was completeUrizen wept & gave it into the hands of Newton & Locke Clouds roll heavy upon the Alps round Rousseau & Voltaire:And on the mountains of Lebanon round the deceased GodsOf Asia; & on the deserts of Africa round the Fallen AngelsThe Guardian Prince of Albion burns in his nightly tent  ASIA The Kings of Asia heardThe howl rise up from Europe!And each ran out from his Web;From his ancient woven Den;For the darkness of Asia was startledAt the thick-flaming, thought-creating fires of Orc. And the Kings of Asia stoodAnd cried in bitterness of soul. Shall not the King call for Famine from the heath?Nor the Priest, for Pestilence from the fen?To restrain! to dismay! to thin!The inhabitants of mountain and plain;In the day, of full-feeding prosperity;And the night of delicious songs. Shall not the Councellor throw his curbOf Poverty on the laborious?To fix the price of labour;To invent allegoric riches: And the privy admonishers of menCall for fires in the CityFor heaps of smoking ruins,In the night of prosperity & wantonness To turn man from his path,To restrain the child from the womb, To cut off the bread from the city,That the remnant may learn to obey.That the pride of the heart may fail;That the lust of the eyes may be quench'd:That the delicate ear in its infancy May be dull'd; and the nostrils clos'd up;To teach mortal worms the pathThat leads from the gates of the Grave. Urizen heard them cry!And his shudd'ring waving wingsWent enormous above the red flamesDrawing clouds of despair thro' the heavensOf Europe as he went:And his Books of brass iron & goldMelted over the land as he flew, Heavy-waving, howling, weeping. And he stood over Judea:And stay'd in his ancient place:And stretch'd his clouds over Jerusalem; For Adam, a mouldering skeletonLay bleach'd on the garden of Eden;And Noah as white as snowOn the mountains of Ararat. Then the thunders of Urizen bellow'd aloudFrom his woven darkness above. Orc raging in European darknessArose like a pillar of fire above the AlpsLike a serpent of fiery flame!The sullen EarthShrunk! Forth from the dead dust rattling bones to bonesJoin: shaking convuls'd the shivring clay breathesAnd all flesh naked stands: Fathers and Friends;Mothers & Infants; Kings & Warriors: The Grave shrieks with delight, & shakesHer hollow womb, & clasps the solid stem:Her bosom swells with wild desire:And milk & blood & glandous wine. The Two Songs I heard an Angel SingingWhen the day was springing:"Mercy, pity, and peace,Are the world's release." So he sang all dayOver the new-mown hay,Till the sun went down,And the haycocks looked brown. I heard a devil curseOver the heath and the furse:"Mercy vould be no moreIf there were nobody poor,And pity no more could beIf all were happy as ye:And mutual fear brings peace,Misery's increaseAre mercy, pity, and peace." At his curse the sun went down,And the heavens gave a frown. The Tyger Tyger! Tyger! burning bright,In the forests of the night,What immortal hand or eyeCould frame thy fearful symmetry? In what distant deeps or skiesBurnt the fire of thine eyes?On what wings dare he aspire?What the hand dare sieze the fire? And what shoulder, & what art,Could twist the sinews of thy heart?And when thy heart began to beat,What dread hand? & what dread feet? What the hammer? what the chain?In what furnace was thy brain?What the anvil? what dread graspDare its deadly terrors clasp? When the stars threw down their spears,And water'd heaven with their tears,Did he smile his work to see?Did he who made the Lamb make thee? Tyger! Tyger! burning brightIn the forests of the night,What immortal hand or eyeDare frame thy fearful symmetry? The Voice Of The Ancient Bard Youth of delight, come hither,And see the opening morn,Image of truth new born.Doubt is fled, & clouds of reason,Dark disputes & artful teazing.Folly is an endless maze,Tangled roots perplex her ways.How many have fallen there!They stumble all night over bones of the dead,And feel they know not what but care,And wish to lead others, when they should be led. The Wild Flower's Song As I wandered the forest,The green leaves among,I heard a Wild FlowerSinging a song. 'I slept in the earthIn the silent night,I murmured my fearsAnd I felt delight. 'In the morning I wentAs rosy as morn,To seek for new joy;But oh! met with scorn.' Three Things To Remember A Robin Redbreast in a cage,Puts all Heaven in a rage. A skylark wounded on the wingDoth make a cherub cease to sing. He who shall hurt the little wrenShall never be beloved by men. To Autumn O Autumn, laden with fruit, and stainèdWith the blood of the grape, pass not, but sitBeneath my shady roof; there thou may'st rest,And tune thy jolly voice to my fresh pipe,And all the daughters of the year shall dance!Sing now the lusty song of fruits and flowers.`The narrow bud opens her beauties toThe sun, and love runs in her thrilling veins;Blossoms hang round the brows of Morning, andFlourish down the bright cheek of modest Eve,Till clust'ring Summer breaks forth into singing,And feather'd clouds strew flowers round her head. `The spirits of the air live on the smellsOf fruit; and Joy, with pinions light, roves roundThe gardens, or sits singing in the trees.'Thus sang the jolly Autumn as he sat;Then rose, girded himself, and o'er the bleakHills fled from our sight; but left his golden load. To Morning O holy virgin! clad in purest white,Unlock heav'n's golden gates, and issue forth;Awake the dawn that sleeps in heaven; let lightRise from the chambers of the east, and bringThe honey'd dew that cometh on waking day.O radiant morning, salute the sunRous'd like a huntsman to the chase, and withThy buskin'd feet appear upon our hills. To Nobodaddy Why art thou silent & invisibleFather of jealousyWhy dost thou hide thyself in cloudsFrom every searching Eye Why darkness & obscurityIn all thy words & lawsThat none dare eat the fruit but fromThe wily serpents jawsOr is it because Secresygains females loud applause To See To see a world in a grain of sand,And a heaven in a wild flower,Hold infinity in the palm of your handAnd eternity in an hour. To Spring O thou with dewy locks, who lookest downThro' the clear windows of the morning, turnThine angel eyes upon our western isle,Which in full choir hails thy approach, O Spring! The hills tell each other, and the listeningValleys hear; all our longing eyes are turnedUp to thy bright pavilions: issue forth,And let thy holy feet visit our clime. Come o'er the eastern hills, and let our windsKiss thy perfumed garments; let us tasteThy morn and evening breath; scatter thy pearlsUpon our love-sick land that mourns for thee. O deck her forth with thy fair fingers; pourThy soft kisses on her bosom; and putThy golden crown upon her languished head,Whose modest tresses were bound up for thee. To Summer O thou who passest thro' our valleys inThy strength, curb thy fierce steeds, allay the heatThat flames from their large nostrils! thou, O Summer,Oft pitched'st here thy goldent tent, and oftBeneath our oaks hast slept, while we beheldWith joy thy ruddy limbs and flourishing hair. Beneath our thickest shades we oft have heardThy voice, when noon upon his fervid carRode o'er the deep of heaven; beside our springsSit down, and in our mossy valleys, onSome bank beside a river clear, throw thySilk draperies off, and rush into the stream:Our valleys love the Summer in his pride. Our bards are fam'd who strike the silver wire:Our youth are bolder than the southern swains:Our maidens fairer in the sprightly dance:We lack not songs, nor instruments of joy,Nor echoes sweet, nor waters clear as heaven,Nor laurel wreaths against the sultry heat. To The Accuser Who Is The God Of This World Truly My Satan thou art but a DunceAnd dost not know the Garment from the ManEvery Harlot was a Virgin onceNor canst thou ever change Kate into Nan Tho thou art Worship'd by the Names DivineOf Jesus & Jehovah thou art stillThe Son of Morn in weary Nights declineThe lost Travellers Dream under the Hill To The Evening Star Thou fair-haired angel of the evening,Now, whilst the sun rests on the mountains, lightThy bright torch of love; thy radiant crownPut on, and smile upon our evening bed!Smile on our loves, and while thou drawest theBlue curtains of the sky, scatter thy silver dewOn every flower that shuts its sweet eyesIn timely sleep. Let thy west wing sleep onThe lake; speak silence with thy glimmering eyes,And wash the dusk with silver. Soon, full soon,Dost thou withdraw; then the wolf rages wide,And the lion glares through the dun forest.The fleeces of our flocks are covered withThy sacred dew; protect with them with thine influence. To The Muses      Whether on Ida's shady brow,        Or in the chambers of the East,    The chambers of the sun, that now        From ancient melody have ceas'd;     Whether in Heav'n ye wander fair,        Or the green corners of the earth,    Or the blue regions of the air,        Where the melodious winds have birth;     Whether on crystal rocks ye rove,      Beneath the bosom of the sea  Wand'ring in many a coral grove,      Fair Nine, forsaking Poetry!   How have you left the ancient love     That bards of old enjoy'd in you!  The languid strings do scarcely move!      The sound is forc'd, the notes are few! To Thomas Butts TO my friend Butts I write My first vision of light, On the yellow sands sitting. The sun was emitting His glorious beams         From Heaven’s high streams. Over sea, over land, My eyes did expand Into regions of air, Away from all care;        Into regions of fire, Remote from desire; The light of the morning Heaven’s mountains adorning: In particles bright,       The jewels of light Distinct shone and clear. Amaz’d and in fear I each particle gazèd, Astonish’d, amazèd;        For each was a Man Human-form’d. Swift I ran, For they beckon’d to me, Remote by the sea, Saying: ‘Each grain of sand,        Every stone on the land, Each rock and each hill, Each fountain and rill, Each herb and each tree, Mountain, hill, earth, and sea,        Cloud, meteor, and star, Are men seen afar.’ I stood in the streams Of Heaven’s bright beams, And saw Felpham sweet        Beneath my bright feet, In soft Female charms; And in her fair arms My Shadow I knew, And my wife’s Shadow too,        And my sister, and friend. We like infants descend In our Shadows on earth, Like a weak mortal birth. My eyes, more and more,        Like a sea without shore, Continue expanding, The Heavens commanding; Till the jewels of light, Heavenly men beaming bright,        Appear’d as One Man, Who complacent began My limbs to enfold In His beams of bright gold; Like dross purg’d away        All my mire and my clay. Soft consum’d in delight, In His bosom sun-bright I remain’d. Soft He smil’d, And I heard His voice mild,        Saying: ‘This is My fold, O thou ram horn’d with gold, Who awakest from sleep On the sides of the deep. On the mountains around        The roarings resound Of the lion and wolf, The loud sea, and deep gulf. These are guards of My fold, O thou ram horn’d with gold!’        And the voice faded mild; I remain’d as a child; All I ever had known Before me bright shone: I saw you and your wife        By the fountains of life. Such the vision to me Appear’d on the sea. To Tirzah Whate'er is Born of Mortal BirthMust be consumed with the EarthTo rise from Generation free:Then what have I to do with thee? The Sexes sprung from Shame & Pride,Blow'd in the morn, in evening died;But Mercy chang'd Death into Sleep;The Sexes rose to work & weep. Thou, Mother of my Mortal part,With cruelty didst mould my Heart,And with false self-deceiving tearsDidst bind my Nostrils, Eyes, & Ears: Didst close my Tongue in senseless clay,And me to Mortal Life betray.The Death of Jesus set me free:Then what have I to do with thee? To Winter O Winter! bar thine adamantine doors:The north is thine; there hast thou built thy darkDeep-founded habitation. Shake not thy roofs,Nor bend thy pillars with thine iron car.'He hears me not, but o'er the yawning deepRides heavy; his storms are unchain'd, sheathèdIn ribbèd steel; I dare not lift mine eyes,For he hath rear'd his sceptre o'er the world. Lo! now the direful monster, whose  skin clingsTo his strong bones, strides o'er the groaning rocks:He withers all in silence, and in his handUnclothes the earth, and freezes up frail life. He takes his seat upon the cliffs,--the marinerCries in vain. Poor little wretch, that deal'stWith storms!--till heaven smiles, and the monsterIs driv'n yelling to his caves beneath mount Hecla. When Klopstock England Defied When Klopstock England defied,Uprose  in his pride;For old Nobodaddy aloft. . . and belch'd and cough'd;Then swore a great oath that made Heaven quake,And call'd aloud to English Blake.Blake was giving his body ease,At Lambeth beneath the poplar trees.From his seat then started heAnd turn'd him round three times three.The moon at that sight blush'd scarlet red,The stars threw down their cups and fled,And all the devils that were in hell, Answerèd with a ninefold yell.Klopstock felt the intripled turn,And all his bowels began to churn,And his bowels turn'd round three times three,And lock'd in his soul with a ninefold key; . . .Then again old Nobodaddy sworeHe ne'er had seen such a thing before,Since Noah was shut in the ark,Since Eve first chose her hellfire spark,Since 'twas the fashion to go naked,Since the old Anything was created . . . Why Should I Care For The Men Of Thames Why should I care for the men of thamesOr the cheating waves of charter'd streamsOr shrink at the little blasts of fearThat the hireling blows into my ear Tho born on the cheating banks of ThamesTho his waters bathed my infant limbsThe Ohio shall wash his stains from meI was born a slave but I go to be free. Why Was Cupid A Boy Why was Cupid a boy,And why a boy was he?He should have been a girl,For aught that I can see. For he shoots with his bow,And the girl shoots with her eye,And they both are merry and glad,And laugh when we do cry. And to make Cupid a boyWas the Cupid girl's mocking plan;For a boy can't interpret the thingTill he is become a man. And then he's so pierc'd with cares,And wounded with arrowy smarts,That the whole business of his lifeIs to pick out the heads of the darts. 'Twas the Greeks' love of warTurn'd Love into a boy,And woman into a statue of stone--And away fled every joy. You Don'T Believe You don't believe -- I won't attempt to make ye:You are asleep -- I won't attempt to wake ye.Sleep on! sleep on! while in your pleasant dreamsOf Reason you may drink of Life's clear streams.Reason and Newton, they are quite two things;For so the swallow and the sparrow sings. Reason says `Miracle': Newton says `Doubt.'Aye! that's the way to make all Nature out.`Doubt, doubt, and don't believe without experiment':That is the very thing that Jesus meant,When He said `Only believe! believe and try!Try, try, and never mind the reason why!'  
If You Forget Me

I want you to know
one thing.

You know how this is:
if I look
at the crystal moon, at the red branch
of the slow autumn at my window,
if I touch
near the fire
the impalpable ash
or the wrinkled body of the log,
everything carries me to you,
as if everything that exists,
aromas, light, metals,
were little boats
that sail
toward those isles of yours that wait for me.

Well, now,
if little by little you stop loving me
I shall stop loving you little by little.

If suddenly
you forget me
do not look for me,
for I shall already have forgotten you.

If you think it long and mad,
the wind of banners
that passes through my life,
and you decide
to leave me at the shore
of the heart where I have roots,
remember
that on that day,
at that hour,
I shall lift my arms
and my roots will set off
to seek another land.

But
if each day,
each hour,
you feel that you are destined for me
with implacable sweetness,
if each day a flower
climbs up to your lips to seek me,
ah my love, ah my own,
in me all that fire is repeated,
in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten,
my love feeds on your love, beloved,
and as long as you live it will be in your arms
without leaving mine. 






Take bread away from me, if you wish,
take air away, but
do not take from me your laughter.

Do not take away the rose,
the lance flower that you pluck,
the water that suddenly
bursts forth in joy,
the sudden wave
of silver born in you.

My struggle is harsh and I come back
with eyes tired
at times from having seen
the unchanging earth,
but when your laughter enters
it rises to the sky seeking me
and it opens for me all
the doors of life.

My love, in the darkest
hour your laughter
opens, and if suddenly
you see my blood staining
the stones of the street,
laugh, because your laughter
will be for my hands
like a fresh sword.

Next to the sea in the autumn,
your laughter must raise
its foamy cascade,
and in the spring, love,
I want your laughter like
the flower I was waiting for,
the blue flower, the rose
of my echoing country.

Laugh at the night,
at the day, at the moon,
laugh at the twisted
streets of the island,
laugh at this clumsy
boy who loves you,
but when I open
my eyes and close them,
when my steps go,
when my steps return,
deny me bread, air,
light, spring,
but never your laughter
for I would die. 






Dreams

Hold fast to dreams
For if dreams die
Life is a broken-winged bird
That cannot fly.
Hold fast to dreams
For when dreams go
Life is a barren field
Frozen with snow. 




As I Grew Older

It was a long time ago.
I have almost forgotten my dream.
But it was there then,
In front of me,
Bright like a sun—
My dream.
And then the wall rose,
Rose slowly,
Slowly,
Between me and my dream.
Rose until it touched the sky—
The wall.
Shadow.
I am black.
I lie down in the shadow.
No longer the light of my dream before me,
Above me.
Only the thick wall.
Only the shadow.
My hands!
My dark hands!
Break through the wall!
Find my dream!
Help me to shatter this darkness,
To smash this night,
To break this shadow
Into a thousand lights of sun,
Into a thousand whirling dreams
Of sun! 







April Rain Song

Let the rain kiss you
Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops
Let the rain sing you a lullaby
The rain makes still pools on the sidewalk
The rain makes running pools in the gutter
The rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night
And I love the rain. 





The City

In the morning the city
Spreads its wings
Making a song
In stone that sings.

In the evening the city
Goes to bed
Hanging lights
Above its head. 




God

I am God-
Without one friend,
Alone in my purity
World without end.
Below me young lovers
Tread the sweet ground—
But I am God—
I cannot come down.
Spring!
Life is love!
Love is life only!
Better to be human
Thank God—and lonely.






To Certain

You sicken me with lies,
With truthful lies.
And with your pious faces.
And your wide, out-stretched,
mock-welcome, Christian hands.
While underneath
Is dirt and ugliness,
And rotting hearts,
And wild hyenas howling
In you soul's wasteland. 







I Wandered Lonely As A Cloud

I wandered lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host, of golden daffodils;
Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.

Continuous as the stars that shine
And twinkle on the milky way,
They stretched in never-ending line
Along the margin of a bay:
Ten thousand saw I at a glance,
Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.

The waves beside them danced; but they
Out-did the sparkling waves in glee:
A poet could not but be gay,
In such a jocund company:
I gazed- and gazed- but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought:

For oft, when on my couch I lie
In vacant or in pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye
Which is the bliss of solitude;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils.







Do Not Stand At My Grave And Weep

Do not stand at my grave and weep
I am not there. I do not sleep.
I am a thousand winds that blow.
I am the diamond glints on snow.
I am the sunlight on ripened grain.
I am the gentle autumn rain.
When you awaken in the morning's hush
I am the swift uplifting rush
Of quiet birds in circled flight.
I am the soft stars that shine at night.
Do not stand at my grave and cry;
I am not there. I did not die. 






A Fourth Of July Wish

This is the day when we are great,
And sally forth to celebrate;
When night comes on, God grant that we
Have ears to hear and eyes to see.






All That Matters

When all that matters shall be written down
And the long record of our years is told,
Where sham, like flesh, must perish and grow cold;
When the tomb closes on our fair renown
And priest and layman, sage and motleyed clown
Must quit the places which they dearly hold,
What to our credit shall we find enscrolled?
And what shall be the jewels of our crown?
I fancy we shall hear to our surprise
Some little deeds of kindness, long forgot,
Telling our glory, and the brave and wise
Deeds which we boasted often, mentioned not.
God gave us life not just to buy and sell,
And all that matters is to live it well.




Ambition

If you would rise above the throng
And seek the crown of fame,
You must do more than drift along
And merely play the game.
Whatever path your feet may tread,
Whatever be your quest,
The only way to get ahead
Is striving for the best.
'Tis not enough to wish to do
A day's toil fairly well;
If you would rise to glory, you
Must hunger to excel.
The boy who has the proper stuff
Goes into every test,
Not seeking to be 'good enough,'
But eager to be 'best.'
Aim high! And though you fail today
And may tomorrow fail,
Keep pounding steadily away,
Some day you'll hit the nail.
At no half-way mark ever pause
n smug content to rest,
Who would win honor and applause
Must want to be the best.
The best must be your aim in life,
The best in sport or work,
Success in any form of strife
Falls never to the shirk.
The crowns of leadership are few,
The followers move in throngs,
If you would be a leader, you
Must shun the 'drift alongs.'





As Fall The Leaves

As fall the leaves, so drop the days
In silence from the tree of life;
Born for a little while to blaze
In action in the heat of strife,
And then to shrivel with Time's blast
And fade forever in the past.
In beauty once the leaf was seen;
To all it offered gentle shade;
Men knew the splendor of its green
That cheered them so, would quickly fade:
And quickly, too, must pass away
All that is splendid of to-day.
To try to keep the leaves were vain:
Men understand that they must fall;
Why should they bitterly complain
When sorrows come to one and all?
Why should they mourn the passing day
That must depart along the way?




As We Prayed

Often as we watched her there
From our lips there fell this prayer,
'God, give us the pain to bear!
Let us suffer in her place,
Take the anguish from her face,
Soothe her with Thy holy grace.'
Then the angels came, and they
Took her lovely soul away
From the torture house of clay.
As we'd prayed, they brought release,
Smoothed her brow with gentle peace,
But our pain shall never cease.
Ours is now the hurt to bear,
Ours the anguish and despair,
Ours the agony to share!
When our hearts with grief were stirred,
Thus we prayed and thus were heard,
Shall we fail to keep our word?





Be Cheerful

Be Cheerful
The world is bright and sunny —
If you haven't any money,
What's the difference?
Let me ask you anyhow.
Let the other fellow hurry,
Let the other fellow worry,
You won't know a thing about it
In a hundred years from now.






Bravery

The brave man journeys straight ahead;
The coward goes
Along his way in constant dread
He'll meet a friend in need, ahead,
Or one he owes.







He is mostly good,
Thoughtful of others and kind and true,
Brave, devoted- and much like you.
Under the toiler's grimy shirt,
Under the sweat and the grease and dirt,
Under the rough outside you view,
Is a man who thinks and feels as you.






Example

Perhaps the victory shall not come to me,
Perhaps I shall not reach the goal I seek,
It may be at the last I shall be weak
And falter as the promised land I see;
Yet I must try for it and strive to be
All that a conqueror is. On to the peak,
Must be my call—this way lies victory!
Boy, take my hand and hear me when I speak.
There is the goal. In honor make the fight.
I may not reach it but, my boy, you can.
Cling to your faith and work with all your might,
Some day the world shall hail you as a man.
And when at last shall come your happy day,
Enough for me that I have shown the way.





Failures

'Tis better to have tried in vain,
Sincerely striving for a goal,
Than to have lived upon the plain
An idle and a timid soul.
'Tis better to have fought and spent
Your courage, missing all applause,
Than to have lived in smug content
And never ventured for a cause.
For he who tries and fails may be
The founder of a better day;
Though never his the victory,
From him shall others learn the way.











Fame

FAME is a fickle jade at best,
And he who seeks to win her smile
Must trudge, disdaining play or rest,
O'er many a long and weary mile.
Nor must he work alone for her,
Nor labor only for her cheers,
For doing this, it may occur
That he shall only reap her sneers.
But when he's ceased to care for self,
And is content to work and wait
For something better far than pelf,
Fame welcomes him among the great.










For The Living

IF you like a brother here,
Tell him so;
If you hold his friendship dear,
Let him know;
All the roses that you spread
On his bier when he is dead
Are not worth one kind word said
Years ago.
You can help a brother now
If you will
Smooth the furrows from his brow;
You can kill
The despair that's in his heart
With a word, and ease the smart.
So why stand you now apart
Keeping still?
You can help a brother when
He is here;
He would hold your praises then
Very dear.
But absurdly still you stay
And withhold what you could say
That would cheer him on his way
For his bier.
What, I wonder, if the dead
Saw and heard
What is done and what is said
Afterward,
Would they utter in reply?
Would they smile and ask us why,
When the time to help was nigh,
No one stirred?
'Keep your roses for the living,'
They would say,
'Waste no time in praises giving











Friends

Ain't it fine when things are going
Topsy-turvy and askew
To discover someone showing
Good old-fashioned faith in you?
Ain't it good when life seems dreary
And your hopes about to end,
Just to feel the handclasp cheery
Of a fine old loyal friend?
Gosh! one fellow to another
Means a lot from day to day,
Seems we're living for each other
In a friendly sort of way.
When a smile or cheerful greetin'
Means so much to fellows sore,
Seems we ought to keep repeatin'
Smiles an' praises more an' more.








He Has Not Lived In Vain

HE has not lived in vain
If men can say
When he has passed away:
&quot;He labored not for gain.'
If one can truly say:
'I loved him for his smile,
He walked with me a mile,
And cheered my weary way.'
If only one shall stand
And sadly murmur this:
'My friend, my friend, I'll miss
The pressure of your hand.'
If only this remain:
One heart that he has cheered;
His monument is reared,
He has not lived in vain.









History Teaches

CAESAR did a few things,
Horace wrote in style,
Good old Plato knew things
Very much worth while.
Famous Aristotle
Had the master's touch;
Blow this in your bottle:
'I am not so much.'
Con your history's pages,
Read the tales of Rome,
Then compare the sages'
To your feeble dome.
All the dead ones study
(If you call them such
They will teach you, Buddy,
You are not so much.









If Those Who Love Us

F those who love us find us true
And kind and gentle, and are glad
When each grim working day is through
To have us near them, why be sad?
If those who know us best rejoice
In what we are and hold us dear,
What matter if the stranger's voice
Shall speak the bitter jibe and jeer?
If those who cling to us still smile
Though grim misfortune has us down,
If they still think our work worth while,
What matters it if strangers frown?









Keep Your Dreams

Keep your dreams-they're richer far
Than the facts discovered are.
Do not seek all things to touch;
Do not want to know too much.
Growing old, still play the child;
Keep some glory undefiled.
What if clouds are mist and air?
Still see ships sailing there.
What would life be if we knew
Only those things which are true?
If the things of bad and good
Were by all men understood.
Nature's hills and brooks and springs
Would be catalogued as things.
Keep your dreams, for in them lies
Joy denied to men grown wise.
Still build castles in the air!
Still see white ships sailing there!
Still have something to pursue,
Something which you wish you knew.









Laddies

Show me the boy who never threw
A stone at someone's cat,
Or never hurled a snowball swift
At someone's high silk hat —
Who never ran away from school,
To seek the swimming hole,
Or slyly from a neighbor's yard
Green apples never stole —
Show me the boy who never broke
A pane of window glass,
Who never disobeyed the sign
That says: 'Keep off the grass.'
Who never did a thousand things,
That grieve us sore to tell,
And I'll show you a little boy
Who must be far from well.







Life's Tests

If never a sorrow came to us,
and never a care we knew;
If every hope were realized,
and every dream came true;
If only joy were found on earth,
and no one ever sighed,
And never a friend proved false to us,
and never a loved one died,
And never a burden bore us down,
soul-sick and weary, too,
We'd yearn for tests to prove our worth
and tasks for us to do.






Making The House A Home

Here's our story, page by page,
Happy youth and middle-age,
Smile and tear-drop, weal and woe
Such as all who live must knowHere it is all written down,
Not for glory or renown,
But the hope when we are gone
Those who bravely follow on
Meeting care and pain and grief
Will not falter in belief.






No Place To Go

The happiest nights
I ever know
Are those when I've
No place to go,
And the missus says
When the day is through:
'To-night we haven't
A thing to do.'
Oh, the joy of it,
And the peace untold
Of sitting 'round
In my slippers old,
With my pipe and book
In my easy chair,
Knowing I needn't
Go anywhere.
Needn't hurry
My evening meal
Nor force the smiles
That I do not feel,
But can grab a book
From a near-by shelf,
And drop all sham
And be myself.
Oh, the charm of it
And the comfort rare;
Nothing on earth
With it can compare;
And I'm sorry for him
Who doesn't know
The joy of having
No place to go.








Oh, you may brag of gardens fine,
But let the children race in mine;
And let the roses, white and red,
Make gay the ground whereon they tread.
And who for bloom perfection seeks,
Should mark the color on their cheeks;
No music that the robin spouts
Is equal to their merry shouts;
There is no foliage to compare
With youngsters' sun-kissed, tousled hair:
Spring's greatest joy beyond a doubt
Is when it brings the children out.







Peace

A man must earn his hour of peace,
Must pay for it with hours of strife and care,
Must win by toil the evening's sweet release,
The rest that may be portioned for his share;
The idler never knows it, never can.
Peace is the glory ever of a man.
A man must win contentment for his soul,
Must battle for it bravely day by day;
The peace he seeks is not a near-by goal;
To claim it he must tread a rugged way.
The shirker never knows a tranquil breast;
Peace but rewards the man who does his best.






Play The Man
TAKE your troubles
Best you can.
Stand right up
And play the man.
Face 'em just
As though you knew
You were coming
Safely through.
Blows will hurt
And bruise you, maybe,
But don't whimper
Like a baby.
Stand right up
And be a man.
Meet your troubles
Best you can.






Play the game!

For the Great Umpire above
Sees what we see nothing of,
By His wisdom and His love—
Play the game!
Keep your faith in Him although
His grim verdicts hurt you so,
At His Will we come and go—
Play the game!






Sacrifice

When he has more than he can eat
To feed a stranger's not a feat.
When he has more than he can spend
It isn't hard to give or lend.
Who gives but what he'll never miss
Will never know what giving is.
He'll win few praises from his Lord
Who does but what he can afford.
The widow's mite to heaven went
Because real sacrifice it meant.






Silent

I did not argue with the man,
It seemed a waste of words.
He gave to chance the wondrous plan
That gave sweet song to birds.
He gave to force the wisdom wise
That shaped the honeybee,
And made the useful butterflies
So beautiful to see.
And as we walked 'neath splendid trees
Which cast a friendly shade,
He said: 'Such miracles as these
By accident were made.'
Too well I know what accident
And chance and force disclose
To think blind fury could invent
The beauty of a rose.
I let him talk and answered not.
I merely thought it odd
That he could view a garden plot
And not believe in God.






Songs Of Gloom

IF the song I have to sing
Is a dreary, gloomy thing,
I would rather silent be;
If I cannot sing of cheer,
I will never let you hear
Any song of dole from me.
Let no dirge escape my lips,
Rather song that gayly trips
Than a slow and mournful tone;
Let me sing a song of pleasure,
In a romping sort of measure,
But my woe I'll bear alone.






The Brave Men

HERE'S to the men who laugh
In the face of grim despair,
Who gather the tares and chaff
But sow with a cheerful air.
Here's to the smiling men
Who, giving, can take a blow,
And rise to the fight again
When others have laid them low.
Here's to the men who grin
When plans that they build go wrong,
And straightway new plans begin
With courage and purpose strong.
Here's to the glad, brave men
Who, battling, expect a bruise,
And rise to the fight again
Undaunted by fights they lose.
Here's to the men who smile,
With faith in the morning light,
And bravely await the while
Till victory crowns their fight.
Here's to the fighting men
That always need not succeed,
To rise to the fight again—
The brave in defeat we need.






The Bumps And Bruises Doctor

I'm the bumps and bruises doctor;
I'm the expert that they seek
When their rough and tumble playing
Leaves a scar on leg or cheek.
I'm the rapid, certain curer
For the wounds of every fall;
I'm the pain eradicator;
I can always heal them all.
Bumps on little people's foreheads
I can quickly smooth away;
I take splinters out of fingers
Without very much delay.
Little sorrows I can banish
With the magic of my touch;
I can fix a bruise that's dreadful
So it isn't hurting much.
I'm the bumps and bruises doctor,
And I answer every call,
And my fee is very simple,
Just a kiss, and that is all.
And I'm sitting here and wishing
In the years that are to be,
When they face life's real troubles
That they'll bring them all to me.





The Call To Service

These are the days when little thoughts
Must cease men's minds to occupy;
The nation needs men's larger creeds,
Big men must answer to her cry;
No longer selfish ways we tread,
The greater task lies just ahead.
These are the days when petty things
By all men must be thrust aside;
The country needs men's finest deeds,
Awakened is the nation's pride;
Men must forsake their selfish strife
Once more to guard their country's life.






The Cheat

I cheated a good friend yesterday,
Kept what was his, and went my way,
Wronged him by silence-for in haste
I let a glad thought go to waste.
I had a word of cheer to speak,
To strengthen him when he grew weak,
To send him smiling on his way But what I thought I didn't say.
He would have richer been to know
That deed of his had pleased me so,
But oh, I failed to let him see
How much his conquest meant to me.
I cheated him of words of praise
Which would have cheered his troubled days;
In this a faithful friend I wronged,
By keeping what to him belonged.
The praise was his by right to hear,
To him belonged my word of cheer;
In silence, though, from him I turned
And cheated him of what he'd earned.







The Common Touch
I would not be too wise—so very wise
That I must sneer at simple songs and creeds,
And let the glare of wisdom blind my eyes
To humble people and their humble needs.
I would not care to climb so high that I
Could never hear the children at their play,
Could only see the people passing by,
Yet never hear the cheering words they say.
I would not know too much—too much to smile
At trivial errors of the heart and hand,
Nor be too proud to play the friend the while,
And cease to help and know and understand.
I would not care to sit upon a throne,
Or build my house upon a mountain-top.
Where I must dwell in glory all alone
And never friend come in or poor man stop.
God grant that I may live upon this earth
And face the tasks which every morning brings,
And never lose the glory and the worth
Of humble service and the simple things.






The Cookie-Lady

She is gentle, kind and fair,
And there's silver in her hair;
She has known the touch of sorrow,
But the smile of her is sweet;
And sometimes it seems to me
That her mission is to be
The gracious cookie-lady
To the youngsters of the street.
All the children in the block
Daily stand beside the crock,
Where she keeps the sugar cookies
That the little folks enjoy;
And no morning passes o'er
That a tapping at her door
Doesn't warn her of the visit
Of a certain little boy.
She has made him feel that he
Has a natural right to be
In her kitchen when she's baking
Pies and cakes and ginger bread;
And each night to me he brings
All the pretty, tender things
About little by-gone children
That the cookie-lady said.
Oh, dear cookie-lady sweet,
May you beautify our street
With your kind and gentle presence
Many more glad years, I pray;
May the skies be bright above you,
As you've taught our babes to love you;
You will scar their hearts with sorrow
If you ever go away.
Life is strange, and when I scan it,
I believe God tries to plan it,
So that where He sends his babies







In that neighborhood to dwell,
One of rare and gracious beauty
Shall abide, whose sweetest duty
Is to be the cookie-lady
That the children love so well.








The Cure

When you can't get her out of your head, young man,
And you hate what you have to do;
And you shirk every task that you find you can,
And the others you hurry through.
When all you can see is the time to quit,
(I know how each symptom goes),
There's only one way to get over it,
The next time you see her—propose.
When you think when you're called to the telephone
That hers is the voice you'll hear,
And because it isn't, you sigh and groan;
When you find that your brain's not clear
And you can't add figures or write a bit
When the columns are all awhirl,
There's only one way to get over it,
And that is to marry the girl.







The Departed

IF no one ever went ahead,
If we had seen no friend depart
And mourned him for a while as dead,
How great would be our fear to start.
If no one for us led the way,
No loved one, garbed in angel white
Stood there, a welcome word to say,
Then we should fear the Heavenly flight.
If we should never say 'good bye,'
Should never shed the parting tear,
We'd face the journey to the sky
In horrible despair and fear.
It is because our friends have gone
And left us in this vale of breath,
Because of those who've journeyed on,
That we can bravely smile at death.







The Doctor

I don't see why Pa likes him so,
And seems so glad to have him come;
He jabs my ribs and wants to know
If here and there it's hurting some.
He holds my wrist, coz there are things
In there, which always jump and jerk,
Then, with a telephone he brings,
He listens to my breather work.
He taps my back and pinches me,
Then hangs a mirror on his head
And looks into my throat to see
What makes it hurt and if it's red.
Then on his knee he starts to write
And says to mother, with a smile:
'This ought to fix him up all right,
We'll cure him in a little while.'
I don't see why Pa likes him so.
Whenever I don't want to play
He says: 'The boy is sick, I know!
Let's get the doctor right away.'
And when he comes, he shakes his hand,
And hustles him upstairs to me,
And seems contented just to stand
Inside the room where he can see.
Then Pa says every time he goes:
'That's money I am glad to pay;
It's worth it, when a fellow knows
His pal will soon be up to play.'
But maybe if my Pa were me,
And had to take his pills and all,
He wouldn't be so glad to see
The doctor come to make a call.





And with disappointments, too.
Age has trod the paths of sorrow,
He has known each glad tomorrow,
But youth is ever dreaming
Of the things he's going to do.




The Dull Road

It's the dull road that leads to the gay road;
The practice that leads to success;
The work road that leads to the play road;
It is trouble that breeds happiness.
It's the hard work and merciless grinding
That purchases glory and fame;
It's repeatedly doing, nor minding
The drudgery drear of the game.
It's the passing up glamor or pleasure
For the sake of the skill we may gain,
And in giving up comfort or leisure
For the joy that we hope to attain.
It's the hard road of trying and learning,
Of toiling, uncheered and alone,
That wins us the prizes worth earning,
And leads us to goals we would own.










The Fellowship Of Books

I care not who the man may be,
Nor how his tasks may fret him,
Nor where he fares, nor how his cares
And troubles may beset him,
If books have won the love of him,
Whatever fortune hands him,
He'll always own, when he's alone,
A friend who understands him.
Though other friends may come and go,
And some may stoop to treason,
His books remain, through loss or gain,
And season after season
The faithful friends for every mood,
His joy and sorrow sharing;
For old time's sake, they'll lighter make
The burdens he is bearing.
Oh, he has counsel at his side,
And wisdom for his duty,
And laughter gay for hours of play
And tenderness and beauty,
And fellowship divinely rare,
True friends who never doubt him,
Unchanging love, and God above,
Who keeps good books about him.






The Few

The easy roads are crowded
And the level roads are jammed;
The pleasant little rivers
With the drifting folks are crammed.
But off yonder where it's rocky,
Where you get a better view,
You will find the ranks are thinning
And the travelers are few.
Where the going's smooth and pleasant
You will always find the throng,
For the many, more's the pity,
Seem to like to drift along.
But the steeps that call for courage,
And the task that's hard to do
In the end result in glory
For the never-wavering few.






We've raised a flagpole on the farm
And flung Old Glory to the sky;
We're far removed from war's alarm,
But courage here is running high.
We're doing things we never dreamed
We'd ever find the time to do;
Deeds that impossible once seemed
Each morning now we hurry through.
The flag now waves above our toil
And sheds its glory on the soil,
And boy and man looks up to it
As if to say: 'I'll do my bit!'






The Future

'The worst is yet to come:'
So wail the doubters glum,
But here's the better view;
'My best I've yet to do.'
The worst some always fear;
To-morrow holds no cheer,
Yet farther on life's lane
Are joys you shall attain.
Go forward bravely, then,
And play your part as men,
For this is ever true:
'Our best we've yet to do.'






We'd have given them all to be
Rich and wise and forty-three.
For life never teaches boys
Just how precious are their joys.
Youth has fled and we are old.
Some of us have fame and gold;
Some of us are sorely scarred,
For the way of age is hard;
And we envy, little man,
You your splendid coat of tan,
Envy you your treasures rare,
Hours of joy beyond compare;
For we know, by teaching stern,
All that some day you must learn.







The Happy Slow Thinker

Full many a time a thought has come
That had a bitter meaning in it.
And in the conversation's hum
I lost it ere I could begin it.
I've had it on my tongue to spring
Some poisoned quip that I thought clever;
Then something happened and the sting
Unuttered went, and died forever.
A lot of bitter thoughts I've had
To silence fellows and to flay 'em,
But next day always I've been glad
I wasn't quick enough to say 'em.






The Limitations Of Greatness

NO MAN really knows enough
To be hateful to his brother,
None is rich enough to cuff
And be cruel to another;
None so clever that he can
Justly wrong his fellow man.
No one is so strong that he
Has the right to curb the weak,
None so great that properly
He can trample down the meek;
There is nothing in success
That excuses selfishness.
Climb unto the topmost bights,
Win yourself an honored name,
But respect another's rights,
Raise the weak and help the lame;
Strength of muscle or of mind
Gives no right to be unkind.






So I wonder as you go

What you'll find of joy or woe
When the limited pulls in on time today;
What of conquest or defeat
Will it be your lot to meet
And to welcome in your gentle, kindly way.
Both your shaky bus and you
With life's toil are nearly through,
Soon your soul upon a journey far will roam;
And I like to think you'll ask
God to let it be your task
To welcome all the children coming home.






The Notion Of Rastus

DERE never was a man on earth
So wonderful or clever,
Dat ever found a way t' live
On dis ole world forever.
Dere never was a man so rich,
Dat didn't have t' go
When ole man Death came after him
An' crooked his finger, so.
An' den dere never was a man
So great, when he was gone
But what dis good ole world of ours
Jes' kep' a-waggin' on.
An' since dis ole world never stops
When famous men depart,
I' ve come t' de conclusion dat
We ain't so awful smart.






The Summer Argument

SHE wants to go unto the shore,
And pack her trunk
With gowns no one has seen before,
And all such junk.
But I would seek some far off place
Where I 'm unknown,
And let my whiskers deck my face,
And be alone.
She sighs for parties and for teas,
They are her wish;
I merely want to take my ease
And loaf and fish.
She wants to lead a life that's grand,
In silken skirts;
I want to wear old trousers and
My outing shirts.






The Summer Girl

The Summer girl
In peek-a-boos
And open hose
And narrow shoes,
Now trips along
The sandy beach,
While each man mutters:
'She's a peach.'
And now she meets
A handsome man,
Who kindly stoops
To get her fan;
Thus is the romance
Quickly staged,
Next day, of course,
They are engaged.
In two short weeks
They separate,
Back to the daily
Grind they hate;
He to his office,
She the store,
And thus their brief
Engagement's o'er.
He quite forgets
They ever met,
But she refuses
To forget;
She tells her friends,
With many a sigh:
'I almost had
A wealthy guy.'






The Toiler

He swore that he'd be true to her,
If she would only marry him;
That as his wife, throughout his life
She'd never know a moment grim.
He vowed that he would toil for her,
That she should wear the latest things,
He'd robe in furs that form of hers
And deck her hands with diamond rings.
He promised her a motor car,
And maids to answer her commands;
In water hot, with dish and pot
He swore she'd never dip her hands.
Oh, fine the promises he made,
Oh, vows by which her heart was stirred!
And since that time, it's been a crime
The way he's worked to keep his word






Life itself is but a toy
Filled with duty and with joy;
Not too closely should we guard
Our brief time from being scarred;
Never high on musty shelves
Should we hoard it for ourselves.
It is something we should share
In another's hour of careSomething we should gladly give
That another here may live;
We should never live it through
Keeping it as good as new.





True

The shoemaker sticks to his last and he's right;
By divorce, though, we wouldn't be cursed,
If everyone else in this great world of ours
Would be willing to stick to his first.






True Nobility

Who does his task from day to day
And meets whatever comes his way,
Believing God has willed it so.
Has found real greatness here below.
Who guards his post, no matter where,
Believing god must need him there,
Although but lowly toil it be,
Has risen to nobility.
For great and low there's but one test:
`Tis that each man shall do his best.
Who works with all the strength he can
Shall never die in debt to man.





True Philosophy

I wouldn't count it worth my while
To sing about a rich man's smile,
Or quote a fellow, trouble free,
An' label that philosophy.
But when I look about and find
A cripple or a brother blind,
An' hear him singing songs of glee,
I want that man's philosophy.







Until She Died

Until she died we never knew
The beauty of our faith in God.
We'd seen the summer roses nod
And wither as the tempests blew,
Through many a spring we'd lived to see
The buds returning to the tree.
We had not felt the touch of woe;
What cares had come, had lightly flown;
Our burdens we had borne alone—
The need of God we did not know.
It seemed sufficient through the days
To think and act in worldly ways.
And then she closed her eyes in sleep;
She left us for a little while;
No more our lives would know her smile.
And oh, the hurt of it went deep!
It seemed to us that we must fall
Before the anguish of it all.
Our faith, which had not known the test,
Then blossomed with its comfort sweet,
Promised that some day we should meet
And whispered to us: 'He knows best.'
And when our bitter tears were dried,
We found our faith was glorified.







What We Can Be

What We Can Be
We cannot all be men of fame,
We cannot all be men of wealth,
We cannot all be known by name,
We cannot all have perfect health,
We cannot all be men of power,
We cannot all be of one mind;
But we can all be, every hour,
Hopeful, cheerful men, and kind.






Now radiators thump and pound
And every room is warm,
And modern men new ways have found
To shield us from the storm.
The window panes are seldom glossed
The way they used to be;
The pictures left by old Jack Frost
Our children never see.
And now that he has gone to rest
In God's great slumber grove,
I often think those days were best
When father shook the stove.







Why I'M Glad

I'M glad I have a wife at home
That's patient, kind and true;
I 'm glad a little tot of three
At home waits for me, too;
I 'm glad that I can see them both,
And hear them when they speak,
I 'm glad that every night I feel
Their kisses on my cheek.
I 'm glad that I am well and strong,
I 'm glad that I can walk
And breathe the morning Springtime air,
I 'm glad that I can talk;
I 'm glad that I have friends who smile
A greeting when I come,
And I am glad that I can be
Each day a friend to some.
I 'm glad that I have work to do,
And splendid books to read,
I 'm glad that I can sleep at night,
I 'm glad that I've a creed
Sustaining me in times of woe,
That soothes me when I grieve;
And I am glad that there 's a God
In Whom I still believe.
I 'm glad that I can laugh and sing,
I 'm glad that I can play;
I 'm even glad that I can eat
Three hearty meals a day.
I 'm glad that life is as it is,
I 'm glad my wants are small,
I 'm glad for, oh, so many things,
I cannot name them all.








Why We Fight

This is the thing we fight:
A cry of terror in the night;
A ship on work of mercy bent—
A carrier of the sick and maimed—
Beneath the cruel waters sent,
And those that did it, unashamed.
A woman who had tried to fill
A mother's place; had nursed the ill
And soothed the troubled brows of pain
And earned the dying's grateful prayers,
Before a wall by soldiers slain!
And such a poor pretext was theirs!
Old women pierced by bayonets grim
And babies slaughtered for a whim,
Cathedrals made the sport of shells,
No mercy, even for a child,
As though the imps of all the hells
Were crazed with drink and running wild.
All this we fight—that some day when
Good sense shall come again to men,
Our children's children may not read
This age's history thus defamed
And find we served a selfish creed
And ever be of us ashamed!







Winds Of The Morning

WINDS of the morning, whisper low,
Lingered you in the valley where
Sleeps my love of the Long Ago,
Under the pale green grasses there?
Tell me, winds of the morning, sweet,
There you paused in your gentle way,
Before you came to the city street,
To kiss the daisies that o'er her sway.
There, from there, all your fragrance rare
You gathered, winds of the morning, say;
Whisper low that you come from there
To cheer the heart of me today.
Winds of the morning, so cool and sweet,
Laden with fragrance; I know, I know
You have come from that deep retreat,
Where sleeps my love of the Long Ago.








Yesterday

I've trod the links with many a man,
And played him club for club;
'Tis scarce a year since I began
And I am still a dub.
But this I've noticed as we strayed
Along the bunkered way,
No one with me has ever played
As he did yesterday.
It makes no difference what the drive,
Together as we walk,
Till we up to the ball arrive,
I get the same old talk:
"To-day there's something wrong with me,
Just what I cannot say.
Would you believe I got a three
For this hole--yesterday?"
I see them top and slice a shot,
And fail to follow through,
And with their brassies plough the lot,
The very way I do.
To six and seven their figures run,
And then they sadly say:
"I neither dubbed nor foozled one
When I played--yesterday!"
I have no yesterdays to count,
No good work to recall;
Each morning sees hope proudly mount,
Each evening sees it fall.
And in the locker room at night,
When men discuss their play,
I hear them and I wish I might
Have seen them--yesterday.
Oh, dear old yesterday! What store
Of joys for men you hold!
I'm sure there is no day that's more
Remembered or extolled.




I'm off my task myself a bit,
My mind has run astray;
I think, perhaps, I should have writ
These verses--yesterday.









A Coat

I MADE my song a coat
Covered with embroideries
Out of old mythologies
From heel to throat;
But the fools caught it,
Wore it in the world's eyes
As though they'd wrought it.
Song, let them take it,
For there's more enterprise
In walking naked.






A Cradle Song

THE angels are stooping
Above your bed;
They weary of trooping
With the whimpering dead.
God's laughing in Heaven
To see you so good;
The Sailing Seven
Are gay with His mood.
I sigh that kiss you,
For I must own
That I shall miss you
When you have grown.






A Crazed Girl

THAT crazed girl improvising her music.
Her poetry, dancing upon the shore,
Her soul in division from itself
Climbing, falling She knew not where,
Hiding amid the cargo of a steamship,
Her knee-cap broken, that girl I declare
A beautiful lofty thing, or a thing
Heroically lost, heroically found.
No matter what disaster occurred
She stood in desperate music wound,
Wound, wound, and she made in her triumph
Where the bales and the baskets lay
No common intelligible sound
But sang, 'O sea-starved, hungry sea.'





A Deep-Sworn Vow

OTHERS because you did not keep
That deep-sworn vow have been friends of mine;
Yet always when I look death in the face,
When I clamber to the heights of sleep,
Or when I grow excited with wine,
Suddenly I meet your face.






Out of the running stream, O morning star
Trembling in the blue heavens like a white fawn
Upon the misty border of the wood,
Bend lower, that I may cover you with my hair,
For we will gaze upon this world no longer.
Beloved, having dragged the net about us,
And knitted mesh to mesh, we grow immortal;
And that old harp awakens of itself
To cry aloud to the grey birds, and dreams,
That have had dreams for father, live in us.






A Dream Of Death

I DREAMED that one had died in a strange place
Near no accustomed hand,
And they had nailed the boards above her face,
The peasants of that land,
Wondering to lay her in that solitude,
And raised above her mound
A cross they had made out of two bits of wood,
And planted cypress round;
And left her to the indifferent stars above
Until I carved these words:
i{She was more beautiful than thy first love,}
i{But now lies under boards.}






A Drinking Song

WINE comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.






A Drunken Man's Praise Of Sobriety

COME swish around, my pretty punk,
And keep me dancing still
That I may stay a sober man
Although I drink my fill.
Sobriety is a jewel
That I do much adore;
And therefore keep me dancing
Though drunkards lie and snore.
O mind your feet, O mind your feet,
Keep dancing like a wave,
And under every dancer
A dead man in his grave.
No ups and downs, my pretty,
A mermaid, not a punk;
A drunkard is a dead man,
And all dead men are drunk.






A Faery Song

WE who are old, old and gay,
O so old!
Thousands of years, thousands of years,
If all were told:
Give to these children, new from the world,
Silence and love;
And the long dew-dropping hours of the night,
And the stars above:
Give to these children, new from the world,
Rest far from men.
Is anything better, anything better?
Tell us it then:
Us who are old, old and gay,
O so old!
Thousands of years, thousands of years,
If all were told.






A First Confession

I admit the briar
Entangled in my hair
Did not injure me;
My blenching and trembling,
Nothing but dissembling,
Nothing but coquetry.
I long for truth, and yet
I cannot stay from that
My better self disowns,
For a man's attention
Brings such satisfaction
To the craving in my bones.
Brightness that I pull back
From the Zodiac,
Why those questioning eyes
That are fixed upon me?
What can they do but shun me
If empty night replies?






A Friend's Illness

SICKNESS brought me this
Thought, in that scale of his:
Why should I be dismayed
Though flame had burned the whole
World, as it were a coal,
Now I have seen it weighed
Against a soul?






A Last Confession

What lively lad most pleasured me
Of all that with me lay?
I answer that I gave my soul
And loved in misery,
But had great pleasure with a lad
That I loved bodily.
Flinging from his arms I laughed
To think his passion such
He fancied that I gave a soul
Did but our bodies touch,
And laughed upon his breast to think
Beast gave beast as much.
I gave what other women gave
That stepped out of their clothes.
But when this soul, its body off,
Naked to naked goes,
He it has found shall find therein
What none other knows,
And give his own and take his own
And rule in his own right;
And though it loved in misery
Close and cling so tight,
There's not a bird of day that dare
Extinguish that delight.







A Man Young And Old: Viii. Summer And Spring
We sat under an old thorn-tree
And talked away the night,
Told all that had been said or done
Since first we saw the light,
And when we talked of growing up
Knew that we'd halved a soul
And fell the one in t'other's arms
That we might make it whole;
Then peter had a murdering look,
For it seemed that he and she
Had spoken of their childish days
Under that very tree.
O what a bursting out there was,
And what a blossoming,
When we had all the summer-time
And she had all the spring!






A Man Young And Old: X. His Wildness
O bid me mount and sail up there
Amid the cloudy wrack,
For peg and Meg and Paris' love
That had so straight a back,
Are gone away, and some that stay
Have changed their silk for sack.
Were I but there and none to hear
I'd have a peacock cry,
For that is natural to a man
That lives in memory,
Being all alone I'd nurse a stone
And sing it lullaby.






A Meditation In Time Of War

FOR one throb of the artery,
While on that old grey stone I Sat
Under the old wind-broken tree,
I knew that One is animate,
Mankind inanimate fantasy'.






A Nativity

WHAT woman hugs her infant there?
Another star has shot an ear.
What made the drapery glisten so?
Not a man but Delacroix.
What made the ceiling waterproof?
Landor's tarpaulin on the roof
What brushes fly and moth aside?
Irving and his plume of pride.
What hurries out the knaye and dolt?
Talma and his thunderbolt.
Why is the woman terror-struck?
Can there be mercy in that look?






A Poet To His Beloved

I BRING you with reverent hands
The books of my numberless dreams,
White woman that passion has worn
As the tide wears the dove-grey sands,
And with heart more old than the horn
That is brimmed from the pale fire of time:
White woman with numberless dreams,
I bring you my passionate rhyme.





Before The World Was Made

If I make the lashes dark
And the eyes more bright
And the lips more scarlet,
Or ask if all be right
From mirror after mirror,
No vanity's displayed:
I'm looking for the face I had
Before the world was made.
What if I look upon a man
As though on my beloved,
And my blood be cold the while
And my heart unmoved?
Why should he think me cruel
Or that he is betrayed?
I'd have him love the thing that was
Before the world was made.







Consolation

O but there is wisdom
In what the sages said;
But stretch that body for a while
And lay down that head
Till I have told the sages
Where man is comforted.
How could passion run so deep
Had I never thought
That the crime of being born
Blackens all our lot?
But where the crime's committed
The crime can be forgot.





Crazy Jane Grown Old Looks At The Dancers

I found that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When She, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For no matter what is said
They had all that had their hate;
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced Love is like the lion's tooth.






Crazy Jane On God

That lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go;
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.









Crazy Jane Reproved

I care not what the sailors say:
All those dreadful thunder-stones,
All that storm that blots the day
Can but show that Heaven yawns;
Great Europa played the fool
That changed a lover for a bull.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.
To round that shell's elaborate whorl,
Adorning every secret track
With the delicate mother-of-pearl,
Made the joints of Heaven crack:
So never hang your heart upon
A roaring, ranting journeyman.
Fol de rol, fol de rol.






Crazy Jane Talks With The Bishop
I met the Bishop on the road
And much said he and I.
'Those breasts are flat and fallen now,
Those veins must soon be dry;
Live in a heavenly mansion,
Not in some foul sty.'
'Fair and foul are near of kin,
And fair needs foul,' I cried.
'My friends are gone, but that's a truth
Nor grave nor bed denied,
Learned in bodily lowliness
And in the heart's pride.
'A woman can be proud and stiff
When on love intent;
But Love has pitched his mansion in
The place of excrement;
For nothing can be sole or whole
That has not been rent.'







Drinking Song

Wine comes in at the mouth
And love comes in at the eye;
That's all we shall know for truth
Before we grow old and die.
I lift the glass to my mouth,
I look at you, and I sigh.







Father And Child

She hears me strike the board and say
That she is under ban
Of all good men and women,
Being mentioned with a man
That has the worst of all bad names;
And thereupon replies
That his hair is beautiful,
Cold as the March wind his eyes.






For Anne Gregory

'NEVER shall a young man,
Thrown into despair
By those great honey-coloured
Ramparts at your ear,
Love you for yourself alone
And not your yellow hair.'
'But I can get a hair-dye
And set such colour there,
Brown, or black, or carrot,
That young men in despair
May love me for myself alone
And not my yellow hair.'
'I heard an old religious man
But yesternight declare
That he had found a text to prove
That only God, my dear,
Could love you for yourself alone
And not your yellow hair.'








He Hears The Cry Of The Sedge

I WANDER by the edge
Of this desolate lake
Where wind cries in the sedge:
Until the axle break
That keeps the stars in their round,
And hands hurl in the deep
The banners of East and West,
And the girdle of light is unhound,
Your breast will not lie by the breast
Of your beloved in sleep







He Wishes For The Cloths Of Heaven

HAD I the heavens' embroidered cloths,
Enwrought with golden and silver light,
The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
Of night and light and the half-light,
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.






He Wishes His Beloved Were Dead

WERE you but lying cold and dead,
And lights were paling out of the West,
You would come hither, and bend your head,
And I would lay my head on your breast;
And you would murmur tender words,
Forgiving me, because you were dead:
Nor would you rise and hasten away,
Though you have the will of the wild birds,
But know your hair was bound and wound
About the stars and moon and sun:
O would, beloved, that you lay
Under the dock-leaves in the ground,
While lights were paling one by one.






Her Anxiety

Earth in beauty dressed
Awaits returning spring.
All true love must die,
Alter at the best
Into some lesser thing.
Prove that I lie.
Such body lovers have,
Such exacting breath,
That they touch or sigh.
Every touch they give,
Love is nearer death.
Prove that I lie.






Her Dream

I dreamed as in my bed I lay,
All night's fathomless wisdom come,
That I had shorn my locks away
And laid them on Love's lettered tomb:
But something bore them out of sight
In a great tumult of the air,
And after nailed upon the night
Berenice's burning hair.









His Bargain

Who talks of Plato's spindle;
What set it whirling round?
Eternity may dwindle,
Time is unwound,
Dan and Jerry Lout
Change their loves about.
However they may take it,
Before the thread began
I made, and may not break it
When the last thread has run,
A bargain with that hair
And all the windings there.






His Confidence

Undying love to buy
I wrote upon
The corners of this eye
All wrongs done.
What payment were enough
For undying love?
I broke my heart in two
So hard I struck.
What matter? for I know
That out of rock,
Out of a desolate source,
Love leaps upon its course.






His Dream

I swayed upon the gaudy stem
The butt-end of a steering-oar,
And saw wherever I could turn
A crowd upon a shore.
And though I would have hushed the crowd,
There was no mother's son but said,
"What is the figure in a shroud
Upon a gaudy bed?'
And after running at the brim
Cried out upon that thing beneath
- It had such dignity of limb By the sweet name of Death.
Though I'd my finger on my lip,
What could I but take up the song?
And running crowd and gaudy ship
Cried out the whole night long,
Crying amid the glittering sea,
Naming it with ecstatic breath,
Because it had such dignity,
By the sweet name of Death.






Love's Loneliness

Old fathers, great-grandfathers,
Rise as kindred should.
If ever lover's loneliness
Came where you stood,
Pray that Heaven protect us
That protect your blood.
The mountain throws a shadow,
Thin is the moon's horn;
What did we remember
Under the ragged thorn?
Dread has followed longing,
And our hearts are torn.






Lullaby

Beloved, may your sleep be sound
That have found it where you fed.
What were all the world's alarms
To mighty paris when he found
Sleep upon a golden bed
That first dawn in Helen's arms?
Sleep, beloved, such a sleep
As did that wild Tristram know
When, the potion's work being done,
Roe could run or doe could leap
Under oak and beechen bough,
Roe could leap or doe could run;
Such a sleep and sound as fell
Upon Eurotas' grassy bank
When the holy bird, that there
Accomplished his predestined will,
From the limbs of Leda sank
But not from her protecting care.






Mad As The Mist And Snow

Bolt and bar the shutter,
For the foul winds blow:
Our minds are at their best this night,
And I seem to know
That everything outside us is
Mad as the mist and snow.
Horace there by Homer stands,
Plato stands below,
And here is Tully's open page.
How many years ago
Were you and I unlettered lads
Mad as the mist and snow?
You ask what makes me sigh, old friend,
What makes me shudder so?
I shudder and I sigh to think
That even Cicero
And many-minded Homer were
Mad as the mist and snow.






Maid Quiet

WHERE has Maid Quiet gone to,
Nodding her russet hood?
The winds that awakened the stars
Are blowing through my blood.
O how could I be so calm
When she rose up to depart?
Now words that called up the lightning
Are hurtling through my heart.




Me Peacock

WHAT'S riches to him
That has made a great peacock
With the pride of his eye?
The wind-beaten, stone-grey,
And desolate Three Rock
Would nourish his whim.
Live he or die
Amid wet rocks and heather,
His ghost will be gay
Adding feather to feather
For the pride of his eye.
WHAT'S riches to him
That has made a great peacock
With the pride of his eye?
The wind-beaten, stone-grey,
And desolate Three Rock
Would nourish his whim.
Live he or die
Amid wet rocks and heather,
His ghost will be gay
Adding feather to feather
For the pride of his eye.






Memory

ONE had a lovely face,
And two or three had charm,
But charm and face were in vain
Because the mountain grass
Cannot but keep the form
Where the mountain hare has lain.








Never Give All The Heart

NEVER give all the heart, for love
Will hardly seem worth thinking of
To passionate women if it seem
Certain, and they never dream
That it fades out from kiss to kiss;
For everything that's lovely is
But a brief, dreamy. Kind delight.
O never give the heart outright,
For they, for all smooth lips can say,
Have given their hearts up to the play.
And who could play it well enough
If deaf and dumb and blind with love?
He that made this knows all the cost,
For he gave all his heart and lost.






Oil And Blood

IN tombs of gold and lapis lazuli
Bodies of holy men and women exude
Miraculous oil, odour of violet.
But under heavy loads of trampled clay
Lie bodies of the vampires full of blood;
Their shrouds are bloody and their lips are wet.






Old Memory

O THOUGHT, fly to her when the end of day
Awakens an old memory, and say,
'Your strength, that is so lofty and fierce and kind,
It might call up a new age, calling to mind
The queens that were imagined long ago,
Is but half yours: he kneaded in the dough
Through the long years of youth, and who would have thought
It all, and more than it all, would come to naught,
And that dear words meant nothing?' But enough,
For when we have blamed the wind we can blame love;
Or, if there needs be more, be nothing said
That would be harsh for children that have strayed.






Old Tom Again

Things out of perfection sail,
And all their swelling canvas wear,
Nor shall the self-begotten fail
Though fantastic men suppose
Building-yard and stormy shore,
Winding-sheet and swaddling - clothes.







On Being Asked For A War Poem
I THINK it better that in times like these
A poet's mouth be silent, for in truth
We have no gift to set a statesman right;
He has had enough of medding who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth,
Or an old man upon a winter's night.








On Those That Hated 'The Playboy Of The Western
World'

ONCE, when midnight smote the air,
Eunuchs ran through Hell and met
On every crowded street to stare
Upon great Juan riding by:
Even like these to rail and sweat
Staring upon his sinewy thigh.






Parting

He. Dear, I must be gone
While night Shuts the eyes
Of the household spies;
That song announces dawn.
She. No, night's bird and love's
Bids all true lovers rest,
While his loud song reproves
The murderous stealth of day.
He. Daylight already flies
From mountain crest to crest
She. That light is from the moon.
He. That bird...
She.
Let him sing on,
I offer to love's play
My dark declivities.






Peace

AH, that Time could touch a form
That could show what Homer's age
Bred to be a hero's wage.
'Were not all her life but storm
Would not painters paint a form
Of such noble lines,' I said,
'Such a delicate high head,
All that sternness amid charm,
All that sweetness amid strength?'
Ah, but peace that comes at length,
Came when Time had touched her form.






Politics

HOW can I, that girl standing there,
My attention fix
On Roman or on Russian
Or on Spanish politics?
Yet here's a travelled man that knows
What he talks about,
And there's a politician
That has read and thought,
And maybe what they say is true
Of war and war's alarms,
But O that I were young again
And held her in my arms!






Presences

THIS night has been so strange that it seemed
As if the hair stood up on my head.
From going-down of the sun I have dreamed
That women laughing, or timid or wild,
In rustle of lace or silken stuff,
Climbed up my creaking stair. They had read
All I had rhymed of that monstrous thing
Returned and yet unrequited love.
They stood in the door and stood between
My great wood lectern and the fire
Till I could hear their hearts beating:
One is a harlot, and one a child
That never looked upon man with desire.
And one, it may be, a queen.






Quarrel In Old Age

WHERE had her sweetness gone?
What fanatics invent
In this blind bitter town,
Fantasy or incident
Not worth thinking of,
put her in a rage.
I had forgiven enough
That had forgiven old age.
All lives that has lived;
So much is certain;
Old sages were not deceived:
Somewhere beyond the curtain
Of distorting days
Lives that lonely thing
That shone before these eyes
Targeted, trod like Spring.






Swift's Epitaph

SWIFT has sailed into his rest;
Savage indignation there
Cannot lacerate his breast.
Imitate him if you dare,
World-besotted traveller; he
Served human liberty.






Symbols

A STORM BEATEN old watch-tower,
A blind hermit rings the hour.
All-destroying sword-blade still
Carried by the wandering fool.
Gold-sewn silk on the sword-blade,
Beauty and fool together laid.






That The Night Come

SHE lived in storm and strife,
Her soul had such desire
For what proud death may bring
That it could not endure
The common good of life,
But lived as 'twere a king
That packed his marriage day
With banneret and pennon,
Trumpet and kettledrum,
And the outrageous cannon,
To bundle time away
That the night come.






'Huntsman Rody, blow the horn,
Make the hills reply.'
'I cannot blow upon my horn,
I can but weep and sigh.'
Servants round his cushioned place
Are with new sorrow wrung;
Hounds are gazing on his face,
Aged hounds and young.
One blind hound only lies apart
On the sun-smitten grass;
He holds deep commune with his heart:
The moments pass and pass:
The blind hound with a mournful din
Lifts slow his wintry head;
The servants bear the body in;
The hounds wail for the dead.






The Balloon Of The Mind

HANDS, do what you're bid:
Bring the balloon of the mind
That bellies and drags in the wind
Into its narrow shed.








The Chambermaid's First Song

HOW came this ranger
Now sunk in rest,
Stranger with stranger.
On my cold breast?
What's left to Sigh for?
Strange night has come;
God's love has hidden him
Out of all harm,
Pleasure has made him
Weak as a worm.






The Chambermaid's Second Song

From pleasure of the bed,
Dull as a worm,
His rod and its butting head
Limp as a worm,
His spirit that has fled
Blind as a worm.





The Choice

The intellect of man is forced to choose
perfection of the life, or of the work,
And if it take the second must refuse
A heavenly mansion, raging in the dark.
When all that story's finished, what's the news?
In luck or out the toil has left its mark:
That old perplexity an empty purse,
Or the day's vanity, the night's remorse.







The Delphic Oracle Upon Plotinus

Behold that great Plotinus swim,
Buffeted by such seas;
Bland Rhadamanthus beckons him,
But the Golden Race looks dim,
Salt blood blocks his eyes.
Scattered on the level grass
Or winding through the grove
plato there and Minos pass,
There stately Pythagoras
And all the choir of Love.






The Dolls

A DOLL in the doll-maker's house
Looks at the cradle and bawls:
'That is an insult to us.'
But the oldest of all the dolls,
Who had seen, being kept for show,
Generations of his sort,
Out-screams the whole shelf: 'Although
There's not a man can report
Evil of this place,
The man and the woman bring
Hither, to our disgrace,
A noisy and filthy thing.'
Hearing him groan and stretch
The doll-maker's wife is aware
Her husband has heard the wretch,
And crouched by the arm of his chair,
She murmurs into his ear,
Head upon shoulder leant:
'My dear, my dear, O dear.
It was an accident.'






The Everlasting Voices

O SWEET everlasting Voices, be still;
Go to the guards of the heavenly fold
And bid them wander obeying your will,
Flame under flame, till Time be no more;
Have you not heard that our hearts are old,
That you call in birds, in wind on the hill,
In shaken boughs, in tide on the shore?
O sweet everlasting Voices, be still.






The Falling Of The Leaves

AUTUMN is over the long leaves that love us,
And over the mice in the barley sheaves;
Yellow the leaves of the rowan above us,
And yellow the wet wild-strawberry leaves.
The hour of the waning of love has beset us,
And weary and worn are our sad souls now;
Let us patt, ere the season of passion forget us,
With a kiss and a tear on thy drooping brow.






The Fascination Of What's Difficult

THE fascination of what's difficult
Has dried the sap out of my veins, and rent
Spontaneous joy and natural content
Out of my heart. There's something ails our colt
That must, as if it had not holy blood
Nor on Olympus leaped from cloud to cloud,
Shiver under the lash, strain, sweat and jolt
As though it dragged road-metal. My curse on plays
That have to be set up in fifty ways,
On the day's war with every knave and dolt,
Theatre business, management of men.
I swear before the dawn comes round again
I'll find the stable and pull out the bolt.






The Fiddler Of Dooney

WHEN I play on my fiddle in Dooney.
Folk dance like a wave of the sea;
My cousin is priest in Kilvarnet,
My brother in Mocharabuiee.
I passed my brother and cousin:
They read in their books of prayer;
I read in my book of songs
I bought at the Sligo fair.
When we come at the end of time
To Peter sitting in state,
He will smile on the three old spirits,
But call me first through the gate;
For the good are always the merry,
Save by an evil chance,
And the merry love the fiddle,
And the merry love to dance:
And when the folk there spy me,
They will all come up to me,
With "Here is the fiddler of Dooney!"
And dance like a wave of the sea.





The Fish

ALTHOUGH you hide in the ebb and flow
Of the pale tide when the moon has set,
The people of coming days will know
About the casting out of my net,
And how you have leaped times out of mind
Over the little silver cords,
And think that you were hard and unkind,
And blame you with many bitter words.





The Heart Of The Woman

O WHAT to me the little room
That was brimmed up with prayer and rest;
He bade me out into the gloom,
And my breast lies upon his breast.
O what to me my mother's care,
The house where I was safe and warm;
The shadowy blossom of my hair
Will hide us from the bitter storm.
O hiding hair and dewy eyes,
I am no more with life and death,
My heart upon his warm heart lies,
My breath is mixed into his breath.






The Lady's First Song

I TURN round
Like a dumb beast in a show.
Neither know what I am
Nor where I go,
My language beaten
Into one name;
I am in love
And that is my shame.
What hurts the soul
My soul adores,
No better than a beast
Upon all fours.






The Lady's Second Song

WHAT sort of man is coming
To lie between your feet?
What matter, we are but women.
Wash; make your body sweet;
I have cupboards of dried fragrance.
I can strew the sheet.
The Lord have mercy upon us.
He shall love my soul as though
Body were not at all,
He shall love your body
Untroubled by the soul,
Love cram love's two divisions
Yet keep his substance whole.
The Lord have mercy upon us.
Soul must learn a love that is
proper to my breast,
Limbs a Love in common
With every noble beast.
If soul may look and body touch,
Which is the more blest?
The Lord have mercy upon us.






The Lady's Third Song

WHEN you and my true lover meet
And he plays tunes between your feet.
Speak no evil of the soul,
Nor think that body is the whole,
For I that am his daylight lady
Know worse evil of the body;
But in honour split his love
Till either neither have enough,
That I may hear if we should kiss
A contrapuntal serpent hiss,
You, should hand explore a thigh,
All the labouring heavens sigh.







The Moods

TIME drops in decay,
Like a candle burnt out,
And the mountains and woods
Have their day, have their day;
What one in the rout
Of the fire-born moods
Has fallen away?











The Realists
HOPE that you may understand!
What can books of men that wive
In a dragon-guarded land,
paintings of the dolphin-drawn
Sea-nymphs in their pearly wagons
Do, but awake a hope to live
That had gone
With the dragons?





The Results Of Thought

ACQUAINTANCE; companion;
One dear brilliant woman;
The best-endowed, the elect,
All by their youth undone,
All, all, by that inhuman
Bitter glory wrecked.
But I have straightened out
Ruin, wreck and wrack;
I toiled long years and at length
Came to so deep a thought
I can summon back
All their wholesome strength.
What images are these
That turn dull-eyed away,
Or Shift Time's filthy load,
Straighten aged knees,
Hesitate or stay?
What heads shake or nod?






The Rose In The Deeps Of His Heart

All things uncomely and broken,
All things worn-out and old,
The cry of a child by the roadway,
The creak of a lumbering cart,
The heavy steps of the ploughman,
splashing the wintry mould,
Are wronging your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.
The wrong of unshapely things
Is a wrong too great to be told;
I hunger to build them anew
And sit on a green knoll apart,
With the earth and the sky and the water,
Remade, like a casket of gold
For my dreams of your image that blossoms
A rose in the deeps of my heart.







The Scholars

BALD heads forgetful of their sins,
Old, learned, respectable bald heads
Edit and annotate the lines
That young men, tossing on their beds,
Rhymed out in love's despair
To flatter beauty's ignorant ear.
All shuffle there; all cough in ink;
All wear the carpet with their shoes;
All think what other people think;
All know the man their neighbour knows.
Lord, what would they say
Did their Catullus walk that way?





The Song Of The Old Mother

I RISE in the dawn, and I kneel and blow
Till the seed of the fire flicker and glow;
And then I must scrub and bake and sweep
Till stars are beginning to blink and peep;
And the young lie long and dream in their bed
Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head,
And their ~y goes over in idleness,
And they sigh if the wind but lift a tress:
While I must work because I am old,
And the seed of the fire gets feeble and cold.





The Song Of Wandering Aengus

I WENT out to the hazel wood,
Because a fire was in my head,
And cut and peeled a hazel wand,
And hooked a berry to a thread;
And when white moths were on the wing,
And moth-like stars were flickering out,
I dropped the berry in a stream
And caught a little silver trout.
When I had laid it on the floor
I went to blow the fire aflame,
But something rustled on the floor,
And some one called me by my name:
It had become a glimmering girl
With apple blossom in her hair
Who called me by my name and ran
And faded through the brightening air.
Though I am old with wandering
Through hollow lands and hilly lands.
I will find out where she has gone,
And kiss her lips and take her hands;
And walk among long dappled grass,
And pluck till time and times are done
The silver apples of the moon,
The golden apples of the sun.






The Sorrow Of Love

THE brawling of a sparrow in the eaves,
The brilliant moon and all the milky sky,
And all that famous harmony of leaves,
Had blotted out man's image and his cry.
A girl arose that had red mournful lips
And seemed the greatness of the world in tears,
Doomed like Odysseus and the labouring ships
And proud as Priam murdered with his peers;
Arose, and on the instant clamorous eaves,
A climbing moon upon an empty sky,
And all that lamentation of the leaves,
Could but compose man's image and his cry.






The Spirit Medium

POETRY, music, I have loved, and yet
Because of those new dead
That come into my soul and escape
Confusion of the bed,
Or those begotten or unbegotten
Perning in a band,
I bend my body to the spade
Or grope with a dirty hand.
Or those begotten or unbegotten,
For I would not recall
Some that being unbegotten
Are not individual,
But copy some one action,
Moulding it of dust or sand,
I bend my body to the spade
Or grope with a dirty hand.
An old ghost's thoughts are lightning,
To follow is to die;
Poetry and music I have banished,
But the stupidity
Of root, shoot, blossom or clay
Makes no demand.
I bend my body to the spade
Or grope with a dirty hand.






The Spur

YOU think it horrible that lust and rage
Should dance attention upon my old age;
They were not such a plague when I was young;
What else have I to spur me into song?





The Three Monuments

THEY hold their public meetings where
Our most renowned patriots stand,
One among the birds of the air,
A stumpier on either hand;
And all the popular statesmen say
That purity built up the State
And after kept it from decay;
And let all base ambition be,
For intellect would make us proud
And pride bring in impurity:
The three old rascals laugh aloud.






This sedentary trade.

Now shall I make my soul,
Compelling it to study
In a learned school
Till the wreck of body,
Slow decay of blood,
Testy delirium
Or dull decrepitude,
Or what worse evil come -The death of friends, or death
Of every brilliant eye
That made a catch in the breath -- .
Seem but the clouds of the sky
When the horizon fades;
Or a bird's sleepy cry
Among the deepening shades.







These Are The Clouds

THESE are the clouds about the fallen sun,
The majesty that shuts his burning eye:
The weak lay hand on what the strong has done,
Till that be tumbled that was lifted high
And discord follow upon unison,
And all things at one common level lie.
And therefore, friend, if your great race were run
And these things came, So much the more thereby
Have you made greatness your companion,
Although it be for children that you sigh:
These are the clouds about the fallen sun,
The majesty that shuts his burning eye.






Those Dancing Days Are Gone

Come, let me sing into your ear;
Those dancing days are gone,
All that silk and satin gear;
Crouch upon a stone,
Wrapping that foul body up
In as foul a rag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
Curse as you may I sing it through;
What matter if the knave
That the most could pleasure you,
The children that he gave,
Are somewhere sleeping like a top
Under a marble flag?
I carry the sun in a golden cup.
The moon in a silver bag.
I thought it out this very day.
Noon upon the clock,
A man may put pretence away
Who leans upon a stick,
May sing, and sing until he drop,
Whether to maid or hag:
I carry the sun in a golden cup,
The moon in a silver bag.






Those Images

WHAT if I bade you leave
The cavern of the mind?
There's better exercise
In the sunlight and wind.
I never bade you go
To Moscow or to Rome.
Renounce that drudgery,
Call the Muses home.
Seek those images
That constitute the wild,
The lion and the virgin,
The harlot and the child
Find in middle air
An eagle on the wing,
Recognise the five
That make the Muses sing.







To A Child Dancing In The Wind

DANCE there upon the shore;
What need have you to care
For wind or water's roar?
And tumble out your hair
That the salt drops have wet;
Being young you have not known
The fool's triumph, nor yet
Love lost as soon as won,
Nor the best labourer dead
And all the sheaves to bind.
What need have you to dread
The monstrous crying of wind!






To A Friend Whose Work Has Come To Nothing

NOW all the truth is out,
Be secret and take defeat
From any brazen throat,
For how can you compete,
Being honour bred, with one
Who, were it proved he lies,
Were neither shamed in his own
Nor in his neighbours' eyes?
Bred to a harder thing
Than Triumph, turn away
And like a laughing string
Whereon mad fingers play
Amid a place of stone,
Be secret and exult,
Because of all things known
That is most difficult.





To A Squirrel At Kyle-Na-No

Come play with me;
Why should you run
Through the shaking tree
As though I'd a gun
To strike you dead?
When all I would do
Is to scratch your head
And let you go.





To A Young Girl

MY dear, my dear, I know
More than another
What makes your heart beat so;
Not even your own mother
Can know it as I know,
Who broke my heart for her
When the wild thought,
That she denies
And has forgot,
Set all her blood astir
And glittered in her eyes.






To An Isle In The Water

SHY one, Shy one,
Shy one of my heart,
She moves in the firelight
pensively apart.
She carries in the dishes,
And lays them in a row.
To an isle in the water
With her would I go.
With catries in the candles,
And lights the curtained room,
Shy in the doorway
And shy in the gloom;
And shy as a rabbit,
Helpful and shy.
To an isle in the water
With her would I fly.






To Be Carved On A Stone At Thoor Ballylee

I, THE poet William Yeats,
With old mill boards and sea-green slates,
And smithy work from the Gort forge,
Restored this tower for my wife George;
And may these characters remain
When all is ruin once again.







About my table to and fro,
Are passing on to where may be,
In truth's consuming ecstasy,
No place for love and dream at all;
For God goes by with white footfall.
I cast my heart into my rhymes,
That you, in the dim coming times,
May know how my heart went with them
After the red-rose-bordered hem.






Not a poor fool understands.
Once he lived a schoolmaster
With a stark, denying look;
A string of scholars went in fear
Of his great birch and his great book.
Like the clangour of a bell,
Sweet and harsh, harsh and sweet.
That is how he learnt so well
To take the roses for his meat.






Her Friends bring her a Christmas Tree
pardon, great enemy,
Without an angry thought
We've carried in our tree,
And here and there have bought
Till all the boughs are gay,
And she may look from the bed
On pretty things that may
please a fantastic head.
Give her a little grace,
What if a laughing eye
Have looked into your face?
It is about to die.








What Was Lost
I SING what was lost and dread what was won,
I walk in a battle fought over again,
My king a lost king, and lost soldiers my men;
Feet to the Rising and Setting may run,
They always beat on the same small stone.






When Helen Lived

WE have cried in our despair
That men desert,
For some trivial affair
Or noisy, insolent sport,
Beauty that we have won
From bitterest hours;
Yet we, had we walked within
Those topless towers
Where Helen waked with her boy,
Had given but as the rest
Of the men and women of Troy,
A word and a jest.








When You Are Old

WHEN you are old and grey and full of sleep,
And nodding by the fire, take down this book,
And slowly read, and dream of the soft look
Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep;
How many loved your moments of glad grace,
And loved your beauty with love false or true,
But one man loved the pilgrim Soul in you,
And loved the sorrows of your changing face;
And bending down beside the glowing bars,
Murmur, a little sadly, how Love fled
And paced upon the mountains overhead
And hid his face amid a crowd of stars.







Where My Books Go

All the words that I utter,
And all the words that I write,
Must spread out their wings untiring,
And never rest in their flight,
Till they come where your sad, sad heart is,
And sing to you in the night,
Beyond where the waters are moving,
Storm-darken’d or starry bright.







Who Goes With Fergus?

WHO will go drive with Fergus now,
And pierce the deep wood's woven shade,
And dance upon the level shore?
Young man, lift up your russet brow,
And lift your tender eyelids, maid,
And brood on hopes and fear no more.
And no more turn aside and brood
Upon love's bitter mystery;
For Fergus rules the brazen cars,
And rules the shadows of the wood,
And the white breast of the dim sea
And all dishevelled wandering stars.







Why Should Not Old Men Be Mad?

WHY should not old men be mad?
Some have known a likely lad
That had a sound fly-fisher's wrist
Turn to a drunken journalist;
A girl that knew all Dante once
Live to bear children to a dunce;
A Helen of social welfare dream,
Climb on a wagonette to scream.
Some think it a matter of course that chance
Should starve good men and bad advance,
That if their neighbours figured plain,
As though upon a lighted screen,
No single story would they find
Of an unbroken happy mind,
A finish worthy of the start.
Young men know nothing of this sort,
Observant old men know it well;
And when they know what old books tell
And that no better can be had,
Know why an old man should be mad.







Wisdom

THE true faith discovered was
When painted panel, statuary.
Glass-mosaic, window-glass,
Amended what was told awry
By some peasant gospeller;
Swept the Sawdust from the floor
Of that working-carpenter.
Miracle had its playtime where
In damask clothed and on a seat
Chryselephantine, cedar-boarded,
His majestic Mother sat
Stitching at a purple hoarded
That He might be nobly breeched
In starry towers of Babylon
Noah's freshet never reached.
King Abundance got Him on
Innocence; and Wisdom He.
That cognomen sounded best
Considering what wild infancy
Drove horror from His Mother's breast.






Words

I HAD this thought a while ago,
'My darling cannot understand
What I have done, or what would do
In this blind bitter land.'
And I grew weary of the sun
Until my thoughts cleared up again,
Remembering that the best I have done
Was done to make it plain;
That every year I have cried, 'At length
My darling understands it all,
Because I have come into my strength,
And words obey my call';
That had she done so who can say
What would have shaken from the sieve?
I might have thrown poor words away
And been content to live.







Bland Rhadamanthus beckons him,
But the Golden Race looks dim,
Salt blood blocks his eyes.
Scattered on the level grass
Or winding through the grove
plato there and Minos pass,
There stately Pythagoras
And all the choir of Love.







Young Man's Song

'She will change,' I cried.
'Into a withered crone.'
The heart in my side,
That so still had lain,
In noble rage replied
And beat upon the bone:
'Uplift those eyes and throw
Those glances unafraid:
She would as bravely show
Did all the fabric fade;
No withered crone I saw
Before the world was made.'
Abashed by that report,
For the heart cannot lie,
I knelt in the dirt.
And all shall bend the knee
To my offended heart
Until it pardon me.






Youth And Age

MUCH did I rage when young,
Being by the world oppressed,
But now with flattering tongue
It speeds the parting guest.









"Faith" Is A Fine Invention

"Faith" is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see-
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.






"Heaven" Has Different Signs-To Me

"Heaven" has different Signs-to me-
Sometimes, I think that Noon
Is but a symbol of the Place-
And when again, at Dawn,
A mighty look runs round the World
And settles in the Hills-
An Awe if it should be like that
Upon the Ignorance steals-
The Orchard, when the Sun is on-
The Triumph of the Birds
When they together Victory make-
Some Carnivals of Clouds-
The Rapture of a finished Day-
Returning to the West-
All these-remind us of the place
That Men call "paradise"-
Itself be fairer-we suppose-
But how Ourself, shall be
Adorned, for a Superior Grace-
Not yet, our eyes can see-






"Heaven"-Is What I Cannot Reach!

"Heaven"-is what I cannot reach!
The Apple on the Tree-
Provided it do hopeless-hang-
That-"Heaven" is-to Me!
The Color, on the Cruising Cloud-
The interdicted Land-
Behind the Hill-the House behind-
There-Paradise-is found!
Her teasing Purples-Afternoons-
The credulous-decoy-
Enamored-of the Conjuror-
That spurned us-Yesterday!






"Houses"-So The Wise Men Tell Me

"Houses"-so the Wise Men tell me-
"Mansions"! Mansions must be warm!
Mansions cannot let the tears in,
Mansions must exclude the storm!
"Many Mansions," by "his Father,"
I don't know him; snugly built!
Could the Children find the way there-
Some, would even trudge tonight!






"I Want"-It Pleaded-All Its Life

"I want"-it pleaded-All its life-
I want-was chief it said
When Skill entreated it-the last-
And when so newly dead-
I could not deem it late-to hear
That single-steadfast sigh-
The lips had placed as with a "Please"
Toward Eternity-






"Nature" Is What We See

"Nature" is what we see-
The Hill-the Afternoon-
Squirrel-Eclipse-the Bumble bee-
Nay-Nature is Heaven-
Nature is what we hear-
The Bobolink-the Sea-
Thunder-the Cricket-
Nay-Nature is Harmony-
Nature is what we know-
Yet have no art to say-
So impotent Our Wisdom is
To her Simplicity.






"Unto Me?" I Do Not Know You

"Unto Me?" I do not know you-
Where may be your House?
"I am Jesus-Late of Judea-
Now-of Paradise"-
Wagons-have you-to convey me?
This is far from Thence-
"Arms of Mine-sufficient Phaeton-
Trust Omnipotence"-
I am spotted-"I am Pardon"-
I am small-"The Least
Is esteemed in Heaven the Chiefest-
Occupy my House"-






"Why Do I Love" You, Sir?

"Why do I love" You, Sir?
Because-
The Wind does not require the Grass
To answer-Wherefore when He pass
She cannot keep Her place.

Because He knows-and
Do not You-
And We know not-
Enough for Us
The Wisdom it be so-
The Lightning-never asked an Eye
Wherefore it shut-when He was by-
Because He knows it cannot speak-
And reasons not contained-
-Of Talk-
There be-preferred by Daintier Folk-
The Sunrise-Sire-compelleth Me-
Because He's Sunrise-and I see-
Therefore-Then-
I love Thee-







How good—to be alive!
How infinite—to be
Alive—two-fold—The Birth I had
And this—besides, in—Thee!






A Bird Came Down

A bird came down the walk:
He did not know I saw;
He bit an angle-worm in halves
And ate the fellow, raw.
And then he drank a dew
From a convenient grass,
And then hopped sidewise to the wall
To let a beetle pass.
He glanced with rapid eyes
That hurried all abroad,They looked like frightened beads, I thought;
He stirred his velvet head
Like one in danger; cautious,
I offered him a crumb,
And he unrolled his feathers
And rowed him softer home
Than oars divide the ocean,
Too silver for a seam,
Or butterflies, off banks of noon,
Leap, splashless, as they swim.






A Book

There is no frigate like a book
To take us lands away,
Nor any coursers like a page
Of prancing poetry.
This traverse may the poorest take
Without oppress of toll;
How frugal is the chariot
That bears a human soul!






A Burdock-Clawed My Gown

A Burdock-clawed my Gown-
Not Burdock's-blame-
But mine-
Who went too near
The Burdock's Den-
A Bog-affronts my shoe-
What else have Bogs-to do-
The only Trade they know-
The splashing Men!
Ah, pity-then!
'Tis Minnows can despise!
The Elephant's-calm eyes
Look further on!






A Charm Invests A Face

A Charm invests a face
Imperfectly beheld—
The Lady dare not lift her Veil
For fear it be dispelled—
But peers beyond her mesh—
And wishes—and denies—
Lest Interview—annul a want
That Image—satisfies—






A chilly Peace infests the Grass
A chilly Peace infests the Grass
The Sun respectful lies 
Not any Trance of industry
These shadows scrutinize 
Whose Allies go no more astray
For service or for Glee
But all mankind deliver here
From whatsoever sea 





A Clock Stopped -- Not The Mantel's

A clock stopped -- not the mantel's
Geneva's farthest skill
Can't put the puppet bowing
That just now dangled still.
An awe came on the trinket!
The figures hunched with pain,
Then quivered out of decimals
Into degreeless noon.
It will not stir for doctors,
This pendulum of snow;
The shopman importunes it,
While cool, concernless No
Nods from the gilded pointers,
Nods from seconds slim,
Decades of arrogance between
The dial life and him.






A Cloud Withdrew From The Sky

A Cloud withdrew from the Sky
Superior Glory be
But that Cloud and its Auxiliaries
Are forever lost to me
Had I but further scanned
Had I secured the Glow
In an Hermetic Memory
It had availed me now.
Never to pass the Angel
With a glance and a Bow
Till I am firm in Heaven
Is my intention now.






A Coffin—is A Small Domain

A Coffin—is a small Domain,
Yet able to contain
A Citizen of Paradise
In it diminished Plane.
A Grave—is a restricted Breadth—
Yet ampler than the Sun—
And all the Seas He populates
And Lands He looks upon
To Him who on its small Repose
Bestows a single Friend—
Circumference without Relief—
Or Estimate—or End—






A Counterfeit - a Plated Person 

A Counterfeit - a Plated Person 
I would not be 
Whatever strata of Iniquity
My Nature underlie 
Truth is good Health - and Safety, and the Sky.
How meagre, what an Exile - is a Lie,
And Vocal - when we die 





A Darting Fear-A Pomp-A Tear

A darting fear-a pomp-a tear-
A waking on a morn
To find that what one waked for,
Inhales the different dawn.






A Day! Help! Help! Another Day!

A Day! Help! Help! Another Day!
Your prayers, oh Passer by!
From such a common ball as this
Might date a Victory!
From marshallings as simple
The flags of nations swang.
Steady-my soul: What issues
Upon thine arrow hang!






A Death Blow Is A Life Blow To Some

A Death blow is a Life blow to Some
Who till they died, did not alive become-
Who had they lived, had died but when
They died, Vitality begun.






A Door Just Opened On A Street
A door just opened on a street-
I, lost, was passing by-
An instant's width of warmth disclosed
And wealth, and company.
The door as sudden shut, and I,
I, lost, was passing by,-
Lost doubly, but by contrast most,
Enlightening misery.






A Doubt If It Be Us

A doubt if it be Us
Assists the staggering Mind
In an extremer Anguish
Until it footing find.
An Unreality is lent,
A merciful Mirage
That makes the living possible
While it suspends the lives.









A Dying Tiger-Moaned For Drink

A Dying Tiger-moaned for Drink-
I hunted all the Sand-
I caught the Dripping of a Rock
And bore it in my Hand-
His Mighty Balls-in death were thick-
But searching-I could see
A Vision on the Retina
Of Water-and of me-
'Twas not my blame-who sped too slow-
'Twas not his blame-who died
While I was reaching him-
But 'twas-the fact that He was dead-






A Feather From The Whippoorwill

A feather from the Whippoorwill
That everlasting-sings!
Whose galleries-are Sunrise-
Whose Opera-the Springs-
Whose Emerald Nest the Ages spin
Of mellow-murmuring thread-
Whose Beryl Egg, what Schoolboys hunt
In "Recess"-Overhead!






A First Mute Coming

A first Mute Coming-
In the Stranger's House-
A first fair Going-
When the Bells rejoice-
A first Exchange-of
What hath mingled-been-
For Lot-exhibited to
Faith-alone-






A Fuzzy Fellow, Without Feet

A fuzzy fellow, without feet,
Yet doth exceeding run!
Of velvet, is his Countenance,
And his Complexion, dun!
Sometime, he dwelleth in the grass!
Sometime, upon a bough,
From which he doth descend in plush
Upon the Passer-by!
All this in summer.
But when winds alarm the Forest Folk,
He taketh Damask Residence-
And struts in sewing silk!
Then, finer than a Lady,
Emerges in the spring!
A Feather on each shoulder!
You'd scarce recognize him!
By Men, yclept Caterpillar!
By me! But who am I,
To tell the pretty secret
Of the Butterfly!






A Great Hope Fell

A great Hope fell
You heard no noise
The Ruin was within
Oh cunning wreck that told no tale
And let no Witness in
The mind was built for mighty Freight
For dread occasion planned
How often foundering at Sea
Ostensibly, on Land
A not admitting of the wound
Until it grew so wide
That all my Life had entered it
And there were troughs beside
A closing of the simple lid
That opened to the sun
Until the tender Carpenter
Perpetual nail it down 





A Happy Lip-Breaks Sudden

A happy lip-breaks sudden-
It doesn't state you how
It contemplated-smiling-
Just consummated-now-
But this one, wears its merriment
So patient-like a pain-
Fresh gilded-to elude the eyes
Unqualified, to scan-






A House Upon The Height

A House upon the Height-
That Wagon never reached-
No Dead, were ever carried down-
No Peddler's Cart-approached-
Whose Chimney never smoked-
Whose Windows-Night and Morn-
Caught Sunrise first-and Sunset-last-
Then-held an Empty Pane-
Whose fate-Conjecture knew-
No other neighbor-did-
And what it was-we never lisped-
Because He-never told-






A Lady Red-Amid The Hill

A Lady red-amid the Hill
Her annual secret keeps!
A Lady white, within the Field
In placid Lily sleeps!
The tidy Breezes, with their Brooms-
Sweep vale-and hill-and tree!
Prithee, My pretty Housewives!
Who may expected be?
The Neighbors do not yet suspect!
The Woods exchange a smile!
Orchard, and Buttercup, and Bird-
In such a little while!
And yet, how still the Landscape stands!
How nonchalant the Hedge!
As if the "Resurrection"
Were nothing very strange!






A lane of Yellow led the eye

A lane of Yellow led the eye
Unto a Purple Wood
Whose soft inhabitants to be
Surpasses solitude
If Bird the silence contradict
Or flower presume to show
In that low summer of the West
Impossible to know 





A Light Exists In Spring

A light exists in spring
Not present on the year
At any other period.
When March is scarcely here
A color stands abroad
On solitary hills
That science cannot overtake,
But human naturefeels.
It waits upon the lawn;
It shows the furthest tree
Upon the furthest slope we know;
It almost speaks to me.
Then, as horizons step,
Or noons report away,
Without the formula of sound,
It passes, and we stay:
A quality of loss
Affecting our content,
As trade had suddenly encroached
Upon a sacrament.






A Little Bread-A Crust-A Crumb

A little bread-a crust-a crumb-
A little trust-a demijohn-
Can keep the soul alive-
Not portly, mind! but breathing-warm-
Conscious-as old Napoleon,
The night before the Crown!
A modest lot-A fame petite-
A brief Campaign of sting and sweet
Is plenty! Is enough!
A Sailor's business is the shore!
A Soldier's-balls! Who asketh more,
Must seek the neighboring life!






A Little Dog That Wags His Tail

A little Dog that wags his tail
And knows no other joy
Of such a little Dog am I
Reminded by a Boy
Who gambols all the living Day
Without an earthly cause
Because he is a little Boy
I honestly suppose The Cat that in the Corner dwells
Her martial Day forgot
The Mouse but a Tradition now
Of her desireless Lot
Another class remind me
Who neither please nor play
But not to make a 'bit of noise'
Beseech each little Boy 





A Little East Of Jordan

A little East of Jordan,
Evangelists record,
A Gymnast and an Angel
Did wrestle long and hard-
Till morning touching mountain-
And Jacob, waxing strong,
The Angel begged permission
To Breakfast-to return-
Not so, said cunning Jacob!
"I will not let thee go
Except thou bless me"-Stranger!
The which acceded to-
Light swung the silver fleeces
"Peniel" Hills beyond,
And the bewildered Gymnast
Found he had worsted God!






A little Madness in the Spring

A little Madness in the Spring
Is wholesome even for the King,
But God be with the Clown 
Who ponders this tremendous scene 
This whole Experiment of Green 
As if it were his own!






A Little Road Not Made Man

A little road not made of man,
Enabled of the eye,
Accessible to thill of bee,
Or cart of butterfly.
If town it have, beyond itself,
'T is that I cannot say;
I only sigh,--no vehicle
Bears me along that way.






A Little Snow Was Here And There

A little Snow was here and there
Disseminated in her Hair Since she and I had met and played
Decade had gathered to Decade But Time had added not obtained
Impregnable the Rose
For summer too indelible
Too obdurate for Snows 





A Long, Long Sleep, A Famous Sleep

A long, long sleep, a famous sleep
That makes no show for dawn
By strech of limb or stir of lid, -
An independent one.
Was ever idleness like this?
Within a hut of stone
To bask the centuries away
Nor once look up for noon?






A Loss Of Something Ever Felt I

A loss of something ever felt I-
The first that I could recollect
Bereft I was-of what I knew not
Too young that any should suspect
A Mourner walked among the children
I notwithstanding went about
As one bemoaning a Dominion
Itself the only Prince cast out-
Elder, Today, a session wiser
And fainter, too, as Wiseness is-
I find myself still softly searching
For my Delinguent Palaces-
And a Suspicion, like a Finger
Touches my Forehead now and then
That I am looking oppositely
For the site of the Kingdom of Heaven-






A Man May Make A Remark

A Man may make a Remark-
In itself-a quiet thing
That may furnish the Fuse unto a Spark
In dormant nature-lain-
Let us deport-with skill-
Let us discourse-with care-
Powder exists in Charcoal-
Before it exists in Fire.






A Mien To Move A Queen

A Mien to move a Queen-
Half Child-Half Heroine-
An Orleans in the Eye
That puts its manner by
For humbler Company
When none are near
Even a Tear-
Its frequent Visitor-
A Bonnet like a Duke-
And yet a Wren's Peruke
Were not so shy
Of Goer by-
And Hands-so slight-
They would elate a Sprite
With Merriment-
A Voice that Alters-Low
And on the Ear can go
Like Let of Snow-
Or shift supreme-
As tone of Realm
On Subjects Diadem-
Too small-to fear-
Too distant-to endear-
And so Men Compromise
And just-revere-






A Moth The Hue Of This

A Moth the hue of this
Haunts Candles in Brazil.
Nature's Experience would make
Our Reddest Second pale.
Nature is fond, I sometimes think,
Of Trinkets, as a Girl.






A Murmur In The Trees-To Note

A Murmur in the Trees-to note-
Not loud enough-for Wind-
A Star-not far enough to seek-
Nor near enough-to find-
A long-long Yellow-on the Lawn-
A Hubbub-as of feet-
Not audible-as Ours-to Us-
But dapperer-More Sweet-
A Hurrying Home of little Men
To Houses unperceived-
All this-and more-if I should tell-
Would never be believed-
Of Robins in the Trundle bed
How many I espy
Whose Nightgowns could not hide the Wings-
Although I heard them try-
But then I promised ne'er to tell-
How could I break My Word?
So go your Way-and I'll go Mine-
No fear you'll miss the Road.






A Narrow Fellow In The Grass

A narrow fellow in the grass
Occasionally rides;
You may have met him,--did you not,
His notice sudden is.
The grass divides as with a comb,
A spotted shaft is seen;
And then it closes at your feet
And opens further on.
He likes a boggy acre,
A floor too cool for corn.
Yet when a child, and barefoot,
I more than once, at morn,
Have passed, I thought, a whip-lash
Unbraiding in the sun,-When, stooping to secure it,
It wrinkled, and was gone.
Several of nature's people
I know, and they know me;
I feel for them a transport
Of cordiality;
But never met this fellow,
Attended or alone,
Without a tighter breathing,
And zero at the bone.






A Nearness To Tremendousness

A nearness to Tremendousness-
An Agony procures-
Affliction ranges Boundlessness-
Vicinity to Laws
Contentment's quiet Suburb-
Affliction cannot stay
In Acres-Its Location
Is Illocality-






A Night-There Lay The Days Between

A Night-there lay the Days between-
The Day that was Before-
And Day that was Behind-were one-
And now-'twas Night-was here-
Slow-Night-that must be watched away-
As Grains upon a shore-
Too imperceptible to note-
Till it be night-no more-






A Pang is more conspicuous in Spring

A Pang is more conspicuous in Spring
In contrast with the things that sing
Not Birds entirely - but Minds 
Minute Effulgencies and Winds- 
When what they sung for is undone
Who cares about a Blue Bird's 
Tune Why, Resurrection had to wait
Till they had moved a Stone 





A Planted Life-Diversified

A Planted Life-diversified
With Gold and Silver Pain
To prove the presence of the Ore
In Particles-'tis when
A Value struggle-it exist-
A Power-will proclaim
Although Annihilation pile
Whole Chaoses on Him-






A Poor-Torn Heart-A Tattered Heart

A poor-torn heart-a tattered heart-
That sat it down to rest-
Nor noticed that the Ebbing Day
Flowed silver to the West-
Nor noticed Night did soft descend-
Nor Constellation burn-
Intent upon the vision
Of latitudes unknown.
The angels-happening that way
This dusty heart espied-
Tenderly took it up from toil
And carried it to God-
There-sandals for the Barefoot-
There-gathered from the gales-
Do the blue havens by the hand
Lead the wandering Sails.






A Precious—mouldering Pleasure

A precious—mouldering pleasure—'tis—
To meet an Antique Book—
In just the Dress his Century wore—
A privilege—I think—
His venerable Hand to take—
And warming in our own—
A passage back—or two—to make—
To Times when he—was young—
His quaint opinions—to inspect—
His thought to ascertain
On Themes concern our mutual mind—
The Literature of Man—
What interested Scholars—most—
What Competitions ran—
When Plato—was a Certainty—
And Sophocles—a Man—
When Sappho—was a living Girl—
And Beatrice wore
The Gown that Dante—deified—
Facts Centuries before
He traverses—familiar—
As One should come to Town—
And tell you all your Dreams—were true—
He lived—where Dreams were born—
His presence is Enchantment—
You beg him not to go—
Old Volume shake their Vellum Heads
And tantalize—just so—






A Prison Gets To Be A Friend

A Prison gets to be a friend-
Between its Ponderous face
And Ours-a Kinsmanship express-
And in its narrow Eyes-
We come to look with gratitude
For the appointed Beam
It deal us-stated as our food-
And hungered for-the same-
We learn to know the Planks-
That answer to Our feet-
So miserable a sound-at first-
Nor ever now-so sweet-
As plashing in the Pools-
When Memory was a Boy-
But a Demurer Circuit-
A Geometric Joy-
The Posture of the Key
That interrupt the Day
To Our Endeavor-Not so real
The Check of Liberty-
As this Phantasm Steel-
Whose features-Day and Night-
Are present to us-as Our Own-
And as escapeless-quite-
The narrow Round-the Stint-
The slow exchange of Hope-
For something passiver-Content
Too steep for lookinp up-
The Liberty we knew
Avoided-like a Dream-
Too wide for any Night but Heaven-
If That-indeed-redeem-






A Route Of Evanescence

A Route of Evanescence
With a revolving Wheel-
A Resonance of Emerald-
A Rush of Cochineal-
And every Blossom on the Bush
Adjusts its tumbled Head-
The mail from Tunis, probably,
An easy Morning's Ride-





A Science-So The Savants Say

A science-so the Savants say,
"Comparative Anatomy"-
By which a single bone-
Is made a secret to unfold
Of some rare tenant of the mold,
Else perished in the stone-
So to the eye prospective led,
This meekest flower of the mead
Upon a winter's day,
Stands representative in gold
Of Rose and Lily, manifold,
And countless Butterfly!






A Secret Told

A Secret told-
Ceases to be a Secret-then-
A Secret-kept-
That-can appal but One-
Better of it-continual be afraid-
Than it-
And Whom you told it to-beside-






A Sepal, Petal, And A Thorn

A sepal, petal, and a thorn
Upon a common summer's morn-
A flask of Dew-A Bee or two-
A Breeze-a caper in the trees-
And I'm a Rose!






A Shade Upon The Mind There Passes

A Shade upon the mind there passes
As when on Noon
A Cloud the mighty Sun encloses
Remembering
That some there be too numb to notice
Oh God
Why give if Thou must take away
The Loved?






A Shady Friend For Torrid Days

A shady friend for torrid days
Is easier to find
Than one of higher temperature
For frigid hour of mind.
The vane a little to the east
Scares muslin souls away;
If broadcloth breasts are firmer
Than those of organdy,
Who is to blame? The weaver?
Ah! the bewildering thread!
The tapestries of paradise!
So notelessly are made!






A Sickness Of This World It Most Occasions

A Sickness of this World it most occasions
When Best Men die.
A Wishfulness their far Condition
To occupy.
A Chief indifference, as Foreign
A World must be
Themselves forsake - contented,
For Deity.






A Single Screw Of Flesh


Is all that pins the Soul
That stands for Deity, to Mine,
Upon my side the Veil-
Once witnessed of the Gauze-
Its name is put away
As far from mine, as if no plight
Had printed yesterday,
In tender-solemn Alphabet,
My eyes just turned to see,
When it was smuggled by my sight
Into Eternity-
More Hands-to hold-These are but Two-
One more new-mailed Nerve
Just granted, for the Peril's sake-
Some striding-Giant-Love-
So greater than the Gods can show,
They slink before the Clay,
That not for all their Heaven can boast
Will let its Keepsake-go






A Slash Of Blue

A slash of Blue-
A sweep of Gray-
Some scarlet patches on the way,
Compose an Evening Sky-
A little purple-slipped between-
Some Ruby Trousers hurried on-
A Wave of Gold-
A Bank of Day-
This just makes out the Morning Sky.






A Sloop of Amber slips away
A Sloop of Amber slips away
Upon an Ether Sea,
And wrecks in Peace a Purple Tar,
The Son of Ecstasy 





A Solemn Thing Within The Soul

A Solemn thing within the Soul
To feel itself get ripe-
And golden hang-while farther up-
The Maker's Ladders stop-
And in the Orchard far below-
You hear a Being-drop-
A Wonderful-to feel the Sun
Still toiling at the Cheek
You thought was finished-
Cool of eye, and critical of Work-
He shifts the stem-a little-
To give your Core-a look-
But solemnest-to know
Your chance in Harvest moves
A little nearer-Every Sun
The Single-to some lives.






A Solemn Thing-It Was-I Said

A solemn thing-it was-I said-
A woman-white-to be-
And wear-if God should count me fit-
Her blameless mystery-
A hallowed thing-to drop a life
Into the purple well-
Too plummetless-that it return-
Eternity-until-
I pondered how the bliss would look-
And would it feel as big-
When I could take it in my hand-
As hovering-seen-through fog-
And then-the size of this "small" life-
The Sages-call it small-
Swelled-like Horizons-in my vest-
And I sneered-softly-"small"!






A Something In A Summer's Day

A something in a summer's Day
As slow her flambeaux burn away
Which solemnizes me.
A something in a summer's noon-
A depth-an Azure-a perfume-
Transcending ecstasy.
And still within a summer's night
A something so transporting bright
I clap my hands to see-
Then veil my too inspecting face
Lets such a subtle-shimmering grace
Flutter too far for me-
The wizard fingers never rest-
The purple brook within the breast
Still chafes it narrow bed-
Still rears the East her amber Flag-
Guides still the sun along the Crag
His Caravan of Red-
So looking on-the night-the morn
Conclude the wonder gay-
And I meet, coming thro' the dews
Another summer's Day!






A South Wind-Has A Pathos

A South Wind-has a pathos
Of individual Voice-
As One detect on Landings
An Emigrant's address.
A Hint of Ports and Peoples-
And much not understood-
The fairer-for the farness-
And for the foreignhood.






A Spider sewed at Night

A Spider sewed at Night
Without a Light
Upon an Arc of White.
If Ruff it was of Dame
Or Shroud of Gnome
Himself himself inform.
Of Immortality
His Strategy
Was Physiognomy.






A Still—volcano—life

A still—Volcano—Life—
That flickered in the night—
When it was dark enough to do
Without erasing sight—
A quiet—Earthquake Style—
Too subtle to suspect
By natures this side Naples—
The North cannot detect
The Solemn—Torrid—Symbol—
The lips that never lie—
Whose hissing Corals part—and shut—
And Cities—ooze away—






A Thought Went Up My Mind To-Day

A thought went up my mind to-day
That I have had before,
But did not finish,--some way back,
I could not fix the year,
Nor where it went, nor why it came
The second time to me,
Nor definitely what it was,
Have I the art to say.
But somewhere in my soul, I know
I've met the thing before;
It just reminded me--'t was all-And came my way no more.






A Throe Upon The Features

A throe upon the features-
A hurry in the breath-
An ecstasy of parting
Denominated "Death"-
An anguish at the mention
Which when to patience grown,
I've known permission given
To rejoin its own.






A Toad Can Die Of Light!

A toad can die of light!
Death is the common right
Of toads and men,-Of earl and midge
The privilege.
Why swagger then?
The gnat's supremacy
Is large as thine.






A Tongue—to Tell Him I Am True!

A Tongue—to tell Him I am true!
Its fee—to be of Gold—
Had Nature—in Her monstrous House
A single Ragged Child—
To earn a Mine—would run
That Interdicted Way,
And tell Him—Charge thee speak it plain—
That so far—Truth is True?
And answer What I do—
Beginning with the Day
That Night—begun—
Nay—Midnight—'twas—
Since Midnight—happened—say—
If once more—Pardon—Boy—
The Magnitude thou may
Enlarge my Message—If too vast
Another Lad—help thee—
Thy Pay—in Diamonds—be—
And His—in solid Gold—
Say Rubies—if He hesitate—
My Message—must be told—
Say—last I said—was This—
That when the Hills—come down—
And hold no higher than the Plain—
My Bond—have just begun—
And when the Heavens—disband—
And Deity conclude—
Then—look for me. Be sure you say—
Least Figure—on the Road—











A Tooth Upon Our Peace

A Tooth upon Our Peace
The Peace cannot deface-
Then Wherefore be the Tooth?
To vitalize the Grace-
The Heaven hath a Hell-
Itself to signalize-
And every sign before the Place
Is Gilt with Sacrifice-






A train went through a burial gate

A train went through a burial gate,
A bird broke forth and sang,
And trilled, and quivered, and shook his throat
Till all the churchyard rang;
And then adjusted his little notes,
And bowed and sang again.
Doubtless, he thought it meet of him
To say good-by to men.






A Transport One Cannot Contain

A transport one cannot contain
May yet a transport be-
Though God forbid it lift the lid-
Unto its Ecstasy!
A Diagram-of Rapture!
A sixpence at a Show-
With Holy Ghosts in Cages!
The Universe would go!






A Visitor In Marl

A Visitor in Marl-
Who influences Flowers-
Till they are orderly as Busts-
And Elegant-as Glass-
Who visits in the Night-
And just before the Sun-
Concludes his glistening interview-
Caresses-and is gone-
But whom his fingers touched-
And where his feet have run-
And whatsoever Mouth be kissed-
Is as it had not been-






A Weight With Needles On The Pounds

A Weight with Needles on the pounds-
To push, and pierce, besides-
That if the Flesh resist the Heft-
The puncture-coolly tries-
That not a pore be overlooked
Of all this Compound Frame-
As manifold for Anguish-
As Species-be-for name-






A Wife-At Daybreak I Shall Be

A Wife-at daybreak I shall be-
Sunrise-Hast thou a Flag for me?
At Midnight, I am but a Maid,
How short it takes to make a Bride-
Then-Midnight, I have passed from thee
Unto the East, and Victory-
Midnight-Good Night! I hear them call,
The Angels bustle in the Hall-
Softly my Future climbs the Stair,
I fumble at my Childhood's prayer
So soon to be a Child no more-
Eternity, I'm coming-Sire,
Savior-I've seen the face-before!






A Wind That Rose

A Wind that rose
Though not a Leaf
In any Forest stirred
But with itself did cold engage
Beyond the Realm of Bird 
A Wind that woke a lone Delight
Like Separation's Swell
Restored in Arctic Confidence
To the Invisible 





A Word dropped careless on a Page

A Word dropped careless on a Page
May stimulate an eye
When folded in perpetual seam
The Wrinkled Maker lie
Infection in the sentence breeds
We may inhale Despair
At distances of Centuries
From the Malaria 





A Wounded Deer-Leaps Highest

A Wounded Deer-leaps highest-
I've heard the Hunter tell-
'Tis but the Ecstasy of death-
And then the Brake is still!
The Smitten Rock that gushes!
The trampled Steel that springs!
A Cheek is always redder
Just where the Hectic stings!
Mirth is the Mail of Anguish
In which it Cautious Arm,
Lest anybody spy the blood
And "you're hurt" exclaim!






Abraham To Kill Him

Abraham to kill him
Was distinctly told—
Isaac was an Urchin—
Abraham was old—
Not a hesitation—
Abraham complied—
Flattered by Obeisance
Tyranny demurred—
Isaac—to his children
Lived to tell the tale—
Moral—with a mastiff
Manners may prevail.






Absence Disembodies—so Does Death

Absence disembodies—so does Death
Hiding individuals from the Earth
Superposition helps, as well as love—
Tenderness decreases as we prove—






Absent Place-An April Day

Absent Place-an April Day-
Daffodils a-blow
Homesick curiosity
To the Souls that snow-
Drift may block within it
Deeper than without-
Daffodil delight but
Him it duplicate-






Adrift! A Little Boat Adrift!

Adrift! A little boat adrift!
And night is coming down!
Will no one guide a little boat
Unto the nearest town?
So Sailors say-on yesterday-
Just as the dusk was brown
One little boat gave up its strife
And gurgled down and down.
So angels say-on yesterday-
Just as the dawn was red
One little boat-o'erspent with gales-
Retrimmed its masts-redecked its sails-
And shot-exultant on!






Afraid! Of Whom Am I Afraid?

Afraid! Of whom am I afraid?
Not Death-for who is He?
The Porter of my Father's Lodge
As much abasheth me!
Of Life? 'Twere odd I fear [a] thing
That comprehendeth me
In one or two existences-
As Deity decree-
Of Resurrection? Is the East
Afraid to trust the Morn
With her fastidious forehead?
As soon impeach my Crown!






After A Hundred Years

After a hundred years
Nobody knows the place,
Agony, that enacted there,
Motionless as peace.
Weeds triumphant ranged,
Strangers strolled and spelled
At the lone orthography
Of the elder dead.
Winds of summer fields
Recollect the way,-Instinct picking up the key
Dropped by memory.






After Great Pain, A Formal Feeling Comes

After great pain, a formal feeling comes-
The Nerves sit ceremonious, like Toombs-
The stiff Heart questions was it He, that bore,
And Yesterday, or Centuries before?
The Feet, mechanical, go round-
Of Ground, or Air, or Ought-
A Wooden way
Regardless grown,
A Quartz contentment, like a stone-
This is the Hour of Lead-
Remembered, if outlived,
As Freezing persons recollect the Snow-
First--Chill--then Stupor--then the letting go-





Again-His Voice Is At The Door

Again-his voice is at the door-
I feel the old Degree-
I hear him ask the servant
For such an one-as me-
I take a flower-as I go-
My face to justify-
He never saw me-in this life-
I might surprise his eye!
I cross the Hall with mingled steps-
I-silent-pass the door-
I look on all this world contains-
Just his face-nothing more!
We talk in careless-and it toss-
A kind of plummet strain-
Each-sounding-shyly-
Just-how-deep-
The other's one-had been-
We walk-I leave my Dog-at home-
A tender-thoughtful Moon-
Goes with us-just a little way-
And-then-we are alone-
Alone-if Angels are "alone"-
First time they try the sky!
Alone-if those "veiled faces"-be-
We cannot count-on High!
I'd give-to live that hour-again-
The purple-in my Vein-
But He must count the drops-himself-
My price for every stain!











Ah, Moon—and Star!

Ah, Moon—and Star!
You are very far—
But were no one
Farther than you—
Do you think I'd stop
For a Firmament—
Or a Cubit—or so?
I could borrow a Bonnet
Of the Lark—
And a Chamois' Silver Boot—
And a stirrup of an Antelope—
And be with you—Tonight!
But, Moon, and Star,
Though you're very far—
There is one—farther than you—
He—is more than a firmament—from Me—
So I can never go!






Ah, Teneriffe!

Ah, Teneriffe!
Retreating Mountain!
Purples of Ages-pause for you-
Sunset-reviews her Sapphire Regiment-
Day-drops you her Red Adieu!
Still-Clad in your Mail of ices-
Thigh of Granite-and thew-of Steel-
Heedless-alike-of pomp-or parting
Ah, Teneriffe!
I'm kneeling-still-










All But Death, Can Be Adjusted

All but Death, can be Adjusted-
Dynasties repaired-
Systems-settled in their Sockets-
Citadels-dissolved-
Wastes of Lives-resown with Colors
By Succeeding Springs-
Death-unto itself-Exception-
Is exempt from Change-






All Circumstances Are The Frame

All Circumstances are the Frame
In which His Face is set-
All Latitudes exist for His
Sufficient Continent-
The Light His Action, and the Dark
The Leisure of His Will-
In Him Existence serve or set
A Force illegible.






All Forgot For Recollecting

All forgot for recollecting
Just a paltry One-
All forsook, for just a Stranger's
New Accompanying-
Grace of Wealth, and Grace of Station
Less accounted than
An unknown Esteem possessing-
Estimate-Who can-
Home effaced-Her faces dwindled-
Nature-altered small-
Sun-if shone-or Storm-if shattered-
Overlooked I all-
Dropped-my fate-a timid Pebble-
In thy bolder Sea-
Prove-me-Sweet-if I regret it-
Prove Myself-of Thee-






All I May, If Small

All I may, if small,
Do it not display
Larger for the Totalness-
'Tis Economy
To bestow a World
And withhold a Star-
Utmost, is Munificence-
Less, tho' larger, poor.






All Men For Honor Hardest Work

All men for Honor hardest work
But are not known to earn 
Paid after they have ceased to work
In Infamy or Urn 





All Overgrown By Cunning Moss

All overgrown by cunning moss,
All interspersed with weed,
The little cage of "Currer Bell"
In quiet "Haworth" laid.
Gathered from many wanderings-
Gethsemane can tell
Thro' what transporting anguish
She reached the Asphodel!
Soft falls the sounds of Eden
Upon her puzzled ear-
Oh what an afternoon for Heaven,
When "Bronte" entered there!






All The Letters I Can Write

All the letters I can write
Are not fair as this-
Syllables of Velvet-
Sentences of Plush,
Depths of Ruby, undrained,
Hid, Lip, for Thee-
Play it were a Humming Bird-
And just sipped-me-






All These My Banners Be

All these my banners be.
I sow my pageantry
In May-
It rises train by train-
Then sleeps in state again-
My chancel-all the plain
Today.
To lose-if one can find again-
To miss-if one shall meet-
The Burglar cannot rob-then-
The Broker cannot cheat.
So build the hillocks gaily
Thou little spade of mine
Leaving nooks for Daisy
And for Columbine-
You and I the secret
Of the Crocus know-
Let us chant it softly-
"There is no more snow!"
To him who keeps an Orchis' heart-
The swamps are pink with June.






Alone, I Cannot Be

Alone, I cannot be-
For Hosts-do visit me-
Recordless Company-
Who baffle Key-
They have no Robes, nor Names-
No Almanacs-nor Climes-
But general Homes
Like Gnomes-
Their Coming, may be known
By Couriers within-
Their going-is not-
For they've never gone-






Alter! When The Hills Do

Alter! When the Hills do-
Falter! When the Sun
Question if His Glory
Be the Perfect One-
Surfeit! When the Daffodil
Doth of the Dew-
Even as Herself-Sir-
I will-of You-











Always Mine!

Always Mine!
No more Vacation!
Term of Light this Day begun!
Failless as the fair rotation
Of the Seasons and the Sun.
Old the Grace, but new the Subjects-
Old, indeed, the East,
Yet upon His Purple Programme
Every Dawn, is first.






Ambition Cannot Find Him

Ambition cannot find him.
Affection doesn't know
How many leagues of nowhere
Lie between them now.
Yesterday, undistinguished!
Eminent Today
For our mutual hone, Immortality!






Ample Make This Bed.

Ample make this bed.
Make this bed with awe;
In it wait till judgment break
Excellent and fair.
Be its mattress straight,
Be its pillow round;
Let no sunrise' yellow noise
Interrupt this ground.






An Altered Look About The Hills

An altered look about the hills-
A Tyrian light the village fills-
A wider sunrise in the morn-
A deeper twilight on the lawn-
A print of a vermillion foot-
A purple finger on the slope-
A flippant fly upon the pane-
A spider at his trade again-
An added strut in Chanticleer-
A flower expected everywhere-
An axe shrill singing in the woods-
Fern odors on untravelled roads-
All this and more I cannot tell-
A furtive look you know as well-
And Nicodemus' Mystery
Receives its annual reply!






An Antiquated Tree

An Antiquated Tree
Is cherished of the Crow
Because that Junior Foliage is disrespectful now
To venerable Birds
Whose Corporation Coat
Would decorate Oblivion's
Remotest Consulate.






An Awful Tempest Mashed The Air

An awful Tempest mashed the air-
The clouds were gaunt, and few-
A Black-as of a Spectre's Cloak
Hid Heaven and Earth from view.
The creatures chuckled on the Roofs-
And whistled in the air-
And shook their fists-
And gnashed their teeth-
And swung their frenzied hair.
The morning lit-the Birds arose-
The Monster's faded eyes
Turned slowly to his native coast-
And peace-was Paradise!






An English Breeze

UP with the sun, the breeze arose,
Across the talking corn she goes,
And smooth she rustles far and wide
Through all the voiceful countryside.
Through all the land her tale she tells;
She spins, she tosses, she compels
The kites, the clouds, the windmill sails
And all the trees in all the dales.
God calls us, and the day prepares
With nimble, gay and gracious airs:
And from Penzance to Maidenhead
The roads last night He watered.
God calls us from inglorious ease,
Forth and to travel with the breeze
While, swift and singing, smooth and strong
She gallops by the fields along.






An Everywhere Of Silver

An everywhere of silver,
With ropes of sand
To keep it from effacing
The track called land.






An Hour Is A Sea

An Hour is a Sea
Between a few, and me-
With them would Harbor be-






An Ignorance A Sunset

An ignorance a Sunset
Confer upon the Eye-
Of Territory-Color-
Circumference-Decay-
Its Amber Revelation
Exhilarate- Debase-
Omnipotence' inspection
Of Our inferior face-
And when the solemn features
Confirm-in Victory-
We start-as if detected
In Immortality-






And This Of All My Hopes

And this of all my Hopes
This, is the silent end
Bountiful colored, my Morning rose
Early and sere, its end
Never Bud from a Stem
Stepped with so gay a Foot
Never a Worm so confident
Bored at so brave a Root











Angels, In The Early Morning

Angels, in the early morning
May be seen the Dews among,
Stooping-plucking-smiling-flying-
Do the Buds to them belong?
Angels, when the sun is hottest
May be seen the sands among,
Stooping-plucking-sighing-flying-
Parched the flowers they bear along.






Answer July

Answer July-
Where is the Bee-
Where is the Blush-
Where is the Hay?
Ah, said July-
Where is the Seed-
Where is the Bud-
Where is the May-
Answer Thee-Me-
Nay-said the May-
Show me the Snow-
Show me the Bells-
Show me the Jay!
Quibbled the Jay-
Where be the Maize-
Where be the Haze-
Where be the Bur?
Here-said the Year-






Apology For Her

Apology for Her
Be rendered by the Bee-
Herself, without a Parliament
Apology for Me.






Apparently With No Surprise

Apparently with no surprise,
To any happy flower,
The frost beheads it at its play,
In accidental power.
The blond assassin passes on.
The sun proceeds unmoved,
To measure off another day,
For an approving God.









Are Friends Delight Or Pain

Are Friends Delight or Pain?
Could Bounty but remain
Riches were good But if they only stay
Ampler to fly away
Riches are sad.






Artists Wrestled Here!

Artists wrestled here!
Lo, a tint Cashmere!
Lo, a Rose!
Student of the Year!
For the easel here
Say Repose!






As By The Dead We Love To Sit

As by the dead we love to sit,
Become so wondrous dear-
As for the lost we grapple
Tho' all the rest are here-
In broken mathematics
We estimate our prize
Vast-in its fading ration
To our penurious eyes!






As Children Bid The Guest "Good Night"

As Children bid the Guest "Good Night"
And then reluctant turn-
My flowers raise their pretty lips-
Then put their nightgowns on.
As children caper when they wake
Merry that it is Morn-
My flowers from a hundred cribs
Will peep, and prance again.






As Everywhere Of Silver

As Everywhere of Silver
With Ropes of Sand
To keep it from effacing
The Track called Land.







As from the earth the light Balloon

As from the earth the light Balloon
Asks nothing but release Ascension that for which it was,
Its soaring Residence.
The spirit looks upon the Dust
That fastened it so long
With indignation,
As a Bird
Defrauded of its song.






As Frost Is Best Conceived

As Frost is best conceived
By force of its Result-
Affliction is inferred
By subsequent effect-
If when the sun reveal,
The Garden keep the Gash-
If as the Days resume
The wilted countenance
Cannot correct the crease
Or counteract the stain-
Presumption is Vitality
Was somewhere put in twain.






As If I Asked A Common Alms

As if I asked a common Alms,
And in my wondering hand
A Stranger pressed a Kingdom,
And I, bewildered, stand-
As if I asked the Orient
Had it for me a Morn-
And it should lift its purple Dikes,
And shatter me with Dawn!






As If Some Little Arctic Flower

As if some little Arctic flower
Upon the polar hem-
Went wandering down the Latitudes
Until it puzzled came
To continents of summer-
To firmaments of sun-
To strange, bright crowds of flowers-
And birds, of foreign tongue!
I say, As if this little flower
To Eden, wandered in-
What then? Why nothing,
Only, your inference therefrom!






As If The Sea Should Part

As if the Sea should part
And show a further Sea-
And that-a further-and the Three
But a presumption be-
Of Periods of Seas-
Unvisited of Shores-
Themselves the Verge of Seas to be-
Eternity-is Those-






As Imperceptibly As Grief

As imperceptibly as Grief
The Summer lapsed away-
Too imperceptible at last
To seem like Perfidy-
A Quietness distilled
As Twilight long begun,
Or Nature spending with herself
Sequestered Afternoon-
The Dusk drew earlier in-
The Morning foreign shone-
A courteous, yet harrowing Grace,
As Guest, that would be gone-
And thus, without a Wing
Or service of a Keel
Our Summer made her light escape
Into the Beautiful.






As old as Woe

As old as Woe How old is that?
Some eighteen thousand years As old as Bliss
How old is that
They are of equal years
Together chiefest they ard found
But seldom side by side
From neither of them tho' he try
Can Human nature hide






As One Does Sickness Over

As One does Sickness over
In convalescent Mind,
His scrutiny of Chances
By blessed Health obscured-
As One rewalks a Precipice
And whittles at the Twig
That held Him from Perdition
Sown sidewise in the Crag
A Custom of the Soul
Far after suffering
Identity to question
For evidence't has been-






As Plan For Noon And Plan For Night

As plan for Noon and plan for Night
So differ Life and Death
In positive Prospective-
The Foot upon the Earth
At Distance, and Achievement, strains,
The Foot upon the Grave
Makes effort at conclusion
Assisted faint of Love.






As Sleigh Bells Seem In Summer

As Sleigh Bells seem in summer
Or Bees, at Christmas show-
So fairy-so fictitious
The individuals do
Repealed from observation-
A Party that we knew-
More distant in an instant
Than Dawn in Timbuctoo.






As subtle as tomorrow

As subtle as tomorrow
That never came,
A warrant, a conviction,
Yet but a name.






As The Starved Maelstrom Laps The Navies

As the Starved Maelstrom laps the Navies
As the Vulture teased
Forces the Broods in lonely Valleys
As the Tiger eased
By but a Crumb of Blood, fasts Scarlet
Till he meet a Man
Dainty adorned with Veins and Tissues
And partakes-his Tongue
Cooled by the Morsel for a moment
Grows a fiercer thing
Till he esteem his Dates and Cocoa
A Nutrition mean
I, of a finer Famine
Deem my Supper dry
For but a Berry of Domingo
And a Torrid Eye.






As Watchers Hang Upon The East

As Watchers hang upon the East,
As Beggars revel at a feast
By savory Fancy spread-
As brooks in deserts babble sweet
On ear too far for the delight,
Heaven beguiles the tired.
As that same watcher, when the East
Opens the lid of Amethyst
And lets the morning go-
That Beggar, when an honored Guest,
Those thirsty lips to flagons pressed,
Heaven to us, if true.






At Last, To Be Identified!

At last, to be identified!
At last, the lamps upon thy side
The rest of Life to see!
Past Midnight! Past the Morning Star!
Past Sunrise!
Ah, What leagues there were
Between our feet, and Day!






At Least—to Pray—is Left—is Left

At least—to pray—is left—is left—
Oh Jesus—in the Air—
I know not which thy chamber is—
I'm knocking—everywhere—
Thou settest Earthquake in the South—
And Maelstrom, in the Sea—
Say, Jesus Christ of Nazareth—
Hast thou no Arm for Me?






Autumn-Overlooked My Knitting

Autumn-overlooked my Knitting-
Dyes-said He-have I-
Could disparage a Flamingo-
Show Me them-said I-
Cochineal-I chose-for deeming
It resemble Thee-
And the little Border-Dusker-
For resembling Me-











Away From Home Are Some And I—

Away from Home are some and I—
An Emigrant to be
In a Metropolis of Homes
Is easy, possibly—
The Habit of a Foreign Sky
We—difficult—acquire
As Children, who remain in Face
The more their Feet retire.






Baffled For Just A Day Or Two

Baffled for just a day or two-
Embarrassed-not afraid-
Encounter in my garden
An unexpected Maid.
She beckons, and the woods start-
She nods, and all begin-
Surely, such a country
I was never in!






Banish Air From Air-

Banish Air from Air-
Divide Light if you dare-
They'll meet
While Cubes in a Drop
Or Pellets of Shape
Fit
Films cannot annul
Odors return whole
Force Flame
And with a Blonde push
Over your impotence
Flits Steam.






Be Mine The Doom-

Be Mine the Doom-
Sufficient Fame-
To perish in Her Hand!






Beauty-Be Not Caused-It Is

Beauty-be not caused-It Is-
Chase it, and it ceases-
Chase it not, and it abides-
Overtake the Creases
In the Meadow-when the Wind
Runs his fingers thro' it-
Deity will see to it
That You never do it-








Because The Bee May Blameless Hum

Because the Bee may blameless hum
For Thee a Bee do I become
List even unto Me.
Because the Flowers unafraid
May lift a look on thine, a Maid
Alway a Flower would be.
Nor Robins, Robins need not hide
When Thou upon their Crypts intrude
So Wings bestow on Me
Or Petals, or a Dower of Buzz
That Bee to ride, or Flower of Furze
I that way worship Thee.






Beclouded

The sky is low, the clouds are mean,
A travelling flake of snow
Across a barn or through a rut
Debates if it will go.
A narrow wind complains all day
How some one treated him;
Nature, like us, is sometimes caught
Without her diadem.






Bee! I'M Expecting You!

Bee! I'm expecting you!
Was saying Yesterday
To Somebody you know
That you were due-
The Frogs got Home last Week-
Are settled, and at work-
Birds, mostly back-
The Clover warm and thick-
You'll get my Letter by
The seventeenth; Reply
Or better, be with me-
Yours, Fly.






Before He Comes We Weigh The Time!

Before He comes we weigh the Time!
'Tis Heavy and 'tis Light.
When He depart, an Emptiness
Is the prevailing Freight.






Before I Got My Eye Put Out

Before I got my eye put out
I liked as well to see-
As other Creatures, that have Eyes
And know no other way-
But were it told to me-Today-
That I might have the sky
For mine-I tell you that my Heart
Would split, for size of me-
The Meadows-mine-
The Mountains-mine-
All Forests-Stintless Stars-
As much of Noon as I could take
Between my finite eyes-
The Motions of the Dipping Birds-
The Morning's Amber Road-
For mine-to look at when I liked-
The News would strike me dead-
So safer-guess-with just my soul
Upon the Window pane-
Where other Creatures put their eyes-
Incautious-of the Sun-






Before The Ice Is In The Pools

Before the ice is in the pools-
Before the skaters go,
Or any check at nightfall
Is tarnished by the snow-
Before the fields have finished,
Before the Christmas tree,
Wonder upon wonder
Will arrive to me!
What we touch the hems of
On a summer's day-
What is only walking
Just a bridge away-
That which sings so-speaks so-
When there's no one here-
Will the frock I wept in
Answer me to wear?






Before You Thought Of Spring,

Before you thought of spring,
Except as a surmise,
You see, God bless his suddenness,
A fellow in the skies
Of independent hues,
A little weather-worn,
Inspiriting habiliments
Of indigo and brown.
With specimens of song,
As if for you to choose,
Discretion in the interval,
With gay delays he goes
To some superior tree
Without a single leaf,
And shouts for joy to nobody
But his seraphic self!






Behind Me Dips Eternity

Behind Me—dips Eternity—
Before Me—Immortality—
Myself—the Term between—
Death but the Drift of Eastern Gray,
Dissolving into Dawn away,
Before the West begin—
'Tis Kingdoms—afterward—they say—
In perfect—pauseless Monarchy—
Whose Prince—is Son of None—
Himself—His Dateless Dynasty—
Himself—Himself diversify—
In Duplicate divine—
'Tis Miracle before Me—then—
'Tis Miracle behind—between—
A Crescent in the Sea—
With Midnight to the North of Her—
And Midnight to the South of Her—
And Maelstrom—in the Sky—






Bereaved Of All, I Went Abroad

Bereaved of all, I went abroad-
No less bereaved was I
Upon a New Peninsula-
The Grave preceded me-
Obtained my Lodgings, ere myself-
And when I sought my Bed-
The Grave it was reposed upon
The Pillow for my Head-
I waked to find it first awake-
I rose-It followed me-
I tried to drop it in the Crowd-
To lose it in the Sea-
In Cups of artificial Drowse
To steep its shape away-
The Grave-was finished-but the Spade
Remained in Memory-






Bereavement In Their Death To Feel

Bereavement in their death to feel
Whom We have never seen-
A Vital Kinsmanship import
Our Soul and theirs-between-
For Stranger-Strangers do not mourn-
There be Immortal friends
Whom Death see first-'tis news of this
That paralyze Ourselves-
Who, vital only to Our Thought-
Such Presence bear away
In dying-'tis as if Our Souls
Absconded-suddenly-






Besides The Autumn Poets Sing

Besides the Autumn poets sing
A few prosaic days
A little this side of the snow
And that side of the Haze-
A few incisive Mornings-
A few Ascetic Eves-
Gone-Mr. Bryant's "Golden Rod"-
And Mr. Thomson's "sheaves."
Still, is the bustle in the Brook-
Sealed are the spicy valves-
Mesmeric fingers softly touch
The Eyes of many Elves-
Perhaps a squirrel may remain-
My sentiments to share-
Grant me, Oh Lord, a sunny mind-
Thy windy will to bear!






Besides This May

Besides this May
We know
There is Another-
How fair
Our Speculations of the Foreigner!
Some know Him whom We knew-
Sweet Wonder-
A Nature be
Where Saints, and our plain going Neighbor
Keep May!






Best Gains—must Have The Losses' Test

Best Gains—must have the Losses' Test—
To constitute them—Gains—






Best Things Dwell Out Of Sight

Best Things dwell out of Sight
The Pearl-the Just-Our Thought.
Most shun the Public Air
Legitimate, and Rare-
The Capsule of the Wind
The Capsule of the Mind
Exhibit here, as doth a Burr-
Germ's Germ be where?






Best Witchcraft is Geometry

Best Witchcraft is Geometry
To the magician's mind 
His ordinary acts are feats
To thinking of mankind.








Between My Country—and The Others
Between My Country—and the Others—
There is a Sea—
But Flowers—negotiate between us—
As Ministry.






Bird

A bird came down the walk:
He did not know I saw;
He bit an angle-worm in halves
And ate the fellow, raw.
And then he drank a dew
From a convenient grass,
And the hopped sideways to the wall
To let a beetle pass.
He glanced with rapid eyes
That hurried all abroad, They looked like frightened beads, I thought
He stirred his velvet head.
Like one in danger; cautious,
I offered him a crumb,
And he unrolled his feathers
And rolled him softer home
Then oars divide the ocean,
Too silver for a seam,
Or butterflies, off banks of noon,
Leap, plashless, as they swim.






Blazing In Gold And Quenching In Purple

Blazing in Gold and quenching in Purple
Leaping like Leopards to the Sky
Then at the feet of the old Horizon
Laying her spotted Face to die
Stooping as low as the Otter's Window
Touching the Roof and tinting the Barn
Kissing her Bonnet to the Meadow
And the Juggler of Day is gone






Bless God, He Went As Soldiers

Bless God, he went as soldiers,
His musket on his breast-
Grant God, he charge the bravest
Of all the martial blest!
Please God, might I behold him
In epauletted white-
I should not fear the foe then-
I should not fear the fight!






Bloom Upon The Mountain—stated

Bloom upon the Mountain—stated—
Blameless of a Name—
Efflorescence of a Sunset—
Reproduced—the same—
Seed, had I, my Purple Sowing
Should endow the Day—
Not a Topic of a Twilight—
Show itself away—
Who for tilling—to the Mountain
Come, and disappear—
Whose be Her Renown, or fading,
Witness, is not here—
While I state—the Solemn Petals,
Far as North—and East,
Far as South and West—expanding—
Culminate—in Rest—
And the Mountain to the Evening
Fit His Countenance—
Indicating, by no Muscle—
The Experience—






Bound-A Trouble

Bound-a trouble-
And lives can bear it!
Limit-how deep a bleeding go!
So-many-drops-of vital scarlet-
Deal with the soul
As with Algebra!
Tell it the Ages-to a cypher-
And it will ache-contented-on-
Sing-at its pain-as any Workman-
Notching the fall of the Even Sun!






Bring Me The Sunset In A Cup

Bring me the sunset in a cup,
Reckon the morning's flagons up
And say how many Dew,
Tell me how far the morning leaps-
Tell me what time the weaver sleeps
Who spun the breadth of blue!
Write me how many notes there be
In the new Robin's ecstasy
Among astonished boughs-
How many trips the Tortoise makes-
How many cups the Bee partakes,
The Debauchee of Dews!
Also, who laid the Rainbow's piers,
Also, who leads the docile spheres
By withes of supple blue?
Whose fingers string the stalactite-
Who counts the wampum of the night
To see that none is due?
Who built this little Alban House
And shut the windows down so close
My spirit cannot see?
Who'll let me out some gala day
With implements to fly away,
Passing Pomposity?






But Little Carmine Hath Her Face

But little Carmine hath her face-
Of Emerald scant-her Gown-
Her Beauty-is the love she doth-
Itself-exhibit-Mine-






By A Flower—by A Letter

By a flower—By a letter—
By a nimble love—
If I weld the Rivet faster—
Final fast—above—
Never mind my breathless Anvil!
Never mind Repose!
Never mind the sooty faces
Tugging at the Forge!






By Chivalries As Tiny

By Chivalries as tiny,
A Blossom, or a Book,
The seeds of smiles are planted-
Which blossom in the dark.






By homely gift and hindered Words

By homely gift and hindered Words
The human heart is told
Of Nothing 'Nothing' is the force
That renovates the World 








By Such And Such An Offering

By such and such an offering
To Mr. So and So,
The web of live woven-
So martyrs albums show!






By The Sea

I started early, took my dog,
And visited the sea;
The mermaids in the basement
Came out to look at me.
And frigates in the upper floor
Extended hempen hands,
Presuming me to be a mouse
Aground, upon the sands.
But no man moved me till the tide
Went past my simple shoe,
And past my apron and my belt,
And past my bodice too,
And made as he would eat me up
As wholly as a dew
Upon a dandelion's sleeve And then I started too.
And he - he followed close behind;
I felt his silver heel
Upon my ankle, - then my shoes
Would overflow with pearl.
Until we met the solid town,
No man he seemed to know;
And bowing with a mighty look
At me, the sea withdrew.






Chartless
I never saw a moor,
I never saw the sea;
Yet now I know how the heather looks,
And what a wave must be.
I never spoke with God,
Nor visited in Heaven;
Yet certain am I of the spot
As if the chart were given.










Cocoon Above! Cocoon Below!

Cocoon above! Cocoon below!
Stealthy Cocoon, why hide you so
What all the world suspect?
An hour, and gay on every tree
Your secret, perched in ecstasy
Defies imprisonment!
An hour in Chrysalis to pass,
Then gay above receding grass
A Butterfly to go!
A moment to interrogate,
Then wiser than a "Surrogate,"
The Universe to know!






Color—caste—denomination

Color—Caste—Denomination—
These—are Time's Affair—
Death's diviner Classifying
Does not know they are—
As in sleep—All Hue forgotten—
Tenets—put behind—
Death's large—Democratic fingers
Rub away the Brand—
If Circassian—He is careless—
If He put away
Chrysalis of Blonde—or Umber—
Equal Butterfly—
They emerge from His Obscuring—
What Death—knows so well—
Our minuter intuitions—
Deem unplausible—






Come Slowly

Come slowly,
Eden
Lips unused to thee.
Bashful, sip thy jasmines,
As the fainting bee,
Reaching late his flower,
Round her chamber hums,
Counts his nectars -alights,
And is lost in balms!






Conjecturing A Climate

Conjecturing a Climate
Of unsuspended Suns-
Adds poignancy to Winter-
The Shivering Fancy turns
To a fictitious Country
To palliate a Cold-
Not obviated of Degree-
Nor erased-of Latitude-






Conscious Am I In My Chamber

Conscious am I in my Chamber,
Of a shapeless friend-
He doth not attest by Posture-
Nor Confirm-by Word-
Neither Place-need I present Him-
Fitter Courtesy
Hospitable intuition
Of His Company-
Presence-is His furthest license-
Neither He to Me
Nor Myself to Him-by Accent-
Forfeit Probity-
Weariness of Him, were quainter
Than Monotony
Knew a Particle-of Space's
Vast Society
Neither if He visit Other-
Do He dwell-or Nay-know I-
But Instinct esteem Him
Immortality-






Could Hope Inspect Her Basis
Could Hope inspect her Basis
Her Craft were done Has a fictitious Charter
Or it has none Balked in the vastest instance
But to renew Felled by but one assassin Prosperity 





Could I But Ride Indefinite

Could I but ride indefinite
As doth the Meadow Bee
And visit only where I liked
And No one visit me
And flirt all Day with Buttercups
And marry whom I may
And dwell a little everywhere
Or better, run away
With no Police to follow
Or chase Him if He do
Till He should jump Peninsulas
To get away from me-
I said "But just to be a Bee"
Upon a Raft of Air
And row in Nowhere all Day long
And anchor "off the Bar"
What Liberty! So Captives deem
Who tight in Dungeons are.






Could I—then—shut The Door

Could I—then—shut the door—
Lest my beseeching face—at last—
Rejected—be—of Her?






Could Live—did Live

Could live—did live—
Could die—did die—
Could smile upon the whole
Through faith in one he met not,
To introduce his soul.
Could go from scene familiar
To an untraversed spot—
Could contemplate the journey
With unpuzzled heart—
Such trust had one among us,
Among us not today—
We who saw the launching
Never sailed the Bay!






Could mortal lip divine
Could mortal lip divine
The undeveloped Freight
Of a delivered syllable
'Twould crumble with the weight.






Could—i Do More—for Thee

Could—I do more—for Thee—
Wert Thou a Bumble Bee—
Since for the Queen, have I—
Nought but Bouquet?






Crisis Is A Hair

Crisis is a Hair
Toward which the forces creep
Past which forces retrograde
If it come in sleep
To suspend the Breath
Is the most we can
Ignorant is it Life or Death
Nicely balancing.
Let an instant push
Or an Atom press
Or a Circle hesitate
In Circumference
It-may jolt the Hand
That adjusts the Hair
That secures Eternity
From presenting-Here-






Crumbling Is Not An Instant's Act

Crumbling is not an instant's Act
A fundamental pause
Dilapidation's processes
Are organized Decays.
'Tis first a Cobweb on the Soul
A Cuticle of Dust
A Borer in the Axis
An Elemental Rust-
Ruin is formal-Devil's work
Consecutive and slow-
Fail in an instant, no man did
Slipping-is Crash's law.






Dare You See A Soul At The White Heat?

Dare you see a Soul at the White Heat?
Then crouch within the door-
Red-is the Fire's common tint-
But when the vivid Ore
Has vanquished Flame's conditions,
It quivers from the Forge
Without a color, but the light
Of unanointed Blaze.
Least Village has its Blacksmith
Whose Anvil's even ring
Stands symbol for the finer Forge
That soundless tugs-within-
Refining these impatient Ores
With Hammer, and with Blaze
Until the Designated Light
Repudiate the Forge-










Death Is A Dialogue Between

Death is a Dialogue between
The Spirit and the Dust.
"Dissolve" says Death-The Spirit "Sir
I have another Trust"-
Death doubts it-Argues from the Ground-
The Spirit turns away
Just laying off for evidence
An Overcoat of Clay.






Death is like the insect

Death is like the insect
Menacing the tree,
Competent to kill it,
But decoyed may be.
Bait it with the balsam,
Seek it with the saw,
Baffle, if it cost you
Everything you are.
Then, if it have burrowed
Out of reach of skill Wring the tree and leave it,
'Tis the vermin's will.






Death Is Potential To That Man

Death is potential to that Man
Who dies-and to his friend-
Beyond that- unconspicuous
To Anyone but God-
Of these Two-God remembers
The longest-for the friend-
Is integral-and therefore
Itself dissolved-of God-






Death Leaves Us Homesick, Who Behind

Death leaves Us homesick, who behind,
Except that it is gone
Are ignorant of its Concern
As if it were not born.
Through all their former Places, we
Like Individuals go
Who something lost, the seeking for
Is all that's left them, now—






Death Sets A Thing Of Significant

Death sets a thing significant
The eye had hurried by,
Except a perished creature
Entreat us tenderly
To ponder little workmanships
In crayon or in wool,
With 'This was last her fingers did,'
Industrious until
The thimble weighed too heavy,
The stitches stopped themselves,
And then 't was put among the dust
Upon the closet shelves.
A book I have, a friend gave,
Whose pencil, here and there,
Had notched the place that pleased him,-At rest his fingers are.
Now, when I read, I read not,
For interrupting tears
Obliterate the etchings
Too costly for repairs.






Declaiming Waters None May Dread

Declaiming Waters none may dread 
But Waters that are still
Are so for that most fatal cause
In Nature - they are full 





Defrauded I A Butterfly

Defrauded I a Butterfly-
The lawful Heir-for Thee-






Delayed Till She Had Ceased To Know

Delayed till she had ceased to know-
Delayed till in its vest of snow
Her loving bosom lay-
An hour behind the fleeting breath-
Later by just an hour than Death-
Oh lagging Yesterday!
Could she have guessed that it would be-
Could but a crier of the joy
Have climbed the distant hill-
Had not the bliss so slow a pace
Who knows but this surrendered face
Were undefeated still?
Oh if there may departing be
Any forgot by Victory
In her imperial round-
Show them this meek appareled thing
That could not stop to be a king-
Doubtful if it be crowned!






Delight Becomes Pictorial

Delight becomes pictorial
When viewed through pain,-More fair, because impossible
That any gain.
The mountain at a given distance
In amber lies;
Approached, the amber flits a little,-And that's the skies!










Denial-Is The Only Fact

Denial-is the only fact
Perceived by the Denied-
Whose Will-a numb significance-
The Day the Heaven died-
And all the Earth strove common round-
Without Delight, or Beam-
What Comfort was it Wisdom-was-
The spoiler of Our Home?






Departed To The Judgment,

Departed to the judgment,
A mighty afternoon;
Great clouds like ushers leaning,
Creation looking on.
The flesh surrendered, cancelled
The bodiless begun;
Two worlds, like audiences, disperse
And leave the soul alone.






Deprived Of Other Banquet

Deprived of other Banquet,
I entertained Myself-
At first-a scant nutrition-
An insufficient Loaf-
But grown by slender addings
To so esteemed a size
'Tis sumptuous enough for me-
And almost to suffice
A Robin's famine able-
Red Pilgrim, He and I-
A Berry from our table
Reserve-for charity-






Despair's Advantage Is Achieved

Despair's advantage is achieved
By suffering-Despair-
To be assisted of Reverse
One must Reverse have bore-
The Worthiness of Suffering like
The Worthiness of Death
Is ascertained by tasting-
As can no other Mouth
Of Savors-make us conscious-
As did ourselves partake-
Affliction feels impalpable
Until Ourselves are struck-






Did Our Best Moment Last

Did Our Best Moment last-
'Twould supersede the Heaven-
A few-and they by Risk-procure-
So this Sort-are not given-
Except as stimulants-in
Cases of Despair-
Or Stupor-The Reserve-
These Heavenly Moments are-
A Grant of the Divine-
That Certain as it Comes-
Withdraws-and leaves the dazzled Soul
In her unfurnished Rooms






Did The Harebell Loose Her Girdle

Did the Harebell loose her girdle
To the lover Bee
Would the Bee the Harebell hallow
Much as formerly?
Did the "Paradise"-persuaded-
Yield her moat of pearl-
Would the Eden be an Eden,
Or the Earl-an Earl?






Did We Disobey Him?

Did we disobey Him?
Just one time!
Charged us to forget Him-
But we couldn't learn!
Were Himself-such a Dunce-
What would we-do?
Love the dull lad-best-
Oh, wouldn't you?






Did You Ever Stand In A Cavern's Mouth

Did you ever stand in a Cavern's Mouth-
Widths out of the Sun-
And look-and shudder, and block your breath-
And deem to be alone
In such a place, what horror,
How Goblin it would be-
And fly, as 'twere pursuing you?
Then Loneliness-looks so-
Did you ever look in a Cannon's face-
Between whose Yellow eye-
And yours-the Judgment intervened-
The Question of "To die"-
Extemporizing in your ear
As cool as Satyr's Drums-
If you remember, and were saved-
It's liker so-it seems-






Distrustful Of The Gentian

Distrustful of the Gentian-
And just to turn away,
The fluttering of her fringes
Child my perfidy-
Weary for my-----
I will singing go-
I shall not feel the sleet-then-
I shall not fear the snow.
Flees so the phantom meadow
Before the breathless Bee-
So bubble brooks in deserts
On Ears that dying lie-
Burn so the Evening Spires
To Eyes that Closing go-
Hangs so distant Heaven-
To a hand below.






Do People Moulder Equally

Do People moulder equally,
They bury, in the Grave?
I do believe a Species
As positively live
As I, who testify it
Deny that I-am dead-
And fill my Lungs, for Witness-
From Tanks-above my Head-
I say to you, said Jesus-
That there be standing here-
A Sort, that shall not taste of Death-
If Jesus was sincere-
I need no further Argue-
That statement of the Lord
Is not a controvertible-
He told me, Death was dead-






Don'T Put Up My Thread And Needle

Don't put up my Thread and Needle-
I'll begin to Sew
When the Birds begin to whistle-
Better Stitches-so-
These were bent-my sight got crooked-
When my mind-is plain
I'll do seams-a Queen's endeavor
Would not blush to own-
Hems-too fine for Lady's tracing
To the sightless Knot-
Tucks-of dainty interspersion-
Like a dotted Dot-
Leave my Needle in the furrow-
Where I put it down-
I can make the zigzag stitches
Straight-when I am strong-
Till then-dreaming I am sewing
Fetch the seam I missed-
Closer-so I-at my sleeping-
Still surmise I stitch-






Doom Is The House Without The Door

Doom is the House without the Door-
'Tis entered from the Sun-
And then the Ladder's thrown away,
Because Escape-is done-
'Tis varied by the Dream
Of what they do outside-
Where Squirrels play-and Berries die-
And Hemlocks-bow-to God-






Doubt Me! My Dim Companion!

Doubt Me! My Dim Companion!
Why, God, would be content
With but a fraction of the Life-
Poured thee, without a stint-
The whole of me-forever-
What more the Woman can,
Say quick, that I may dower thee
With last Delight I own!
It cannot be my Spirit-
For that was thine, before-
I ceded all of Dust I knew-
What Opulence the more
Had I-a freckled Maiden,
Whose farthest of Degree,
Was-that she might-
Some distant Heaven,
Dwell timidly, with thee!
Sift her, from Brow to Barefoot!
Strain till your last Surmise-
Drop, like a Tapestry, away,
Before the Fire's Eyes-
Winnow her finest fondness-
But hallow just the snow
Intact, in Everlasting flake-
Oh, Caviler, for you!






Down Time's quaint stream

Down Time's quaint stream
Without an oar
We are enforced to sail
Our Port a secret
Our Perchance a Gale
What Skipper would
Incur the Risk
What Buccaneer would ride
Without a surety from the Wind
Or schedule of the Tide 





Drab Habitation Of Whom?

Drab Habitation of Whom?
Tabernacle or Tomb-
Or Dome of Worm-
Or Porch of Gnome-
Or some Elf's Catacomb?






Drama's Vitallest Expression Is The Common Day

Drama's Vitallest Expression is the Common Day
That arise and set about Us-
Other Tragedy
Perish in the Recitation-
This-the best enact
When the Audience is scattered
And the Boxes shut-
"Hamlet" to Himself were Hamlet-
Had not Shakespeare wrote-
Though the "Romeo" left no Record
Of his Juliet,
It were infinite enacted
In the Human Heart-
Only Theatre recorded
Owner cannot shut-






Dreams-Are Well-But Waking's Better

Dreams-are well-but Waking's better,
If One wake at morn-
If One wake at Midnight-better-
Dreaming-of the Dawn-
Sweeter-the Surmising Robins-
Never gladdened Tree-
Than a Solid Dawn-confronting-
Leading to no Day-






Dropped Into The Ether Acre

Dropped into the Ether Acre-
Wearing the Sod Gown-
Bonnet of Everlasting Laces-
Brooch-frozen on-
Horses of Blonde-and Coach of Silver-
Baggage a strapped Pearl-
Journey of Down-and Whip of Diamond-
Riding to meet the Earl-






Drowning is not so pitiful

Drowning is not so pitiful
As the attempt to rise.
Three times, 't is said, a sinking man
Comes up to face the skies,
And then declines forever
To that abhorred abode
Where hope and he part company,—
For he is grasped of God.
The Maker's cordial visage,
However good to see,
Is shunned, we must admit it,
Like an adversity.






Dust Is The Only Secret

Dust is the only Secret-
Death, the only One
You cannot find out all about
In his "native town."
Nobody know "his Father"-
Never was a Boy-
Hadn't any playmates,
Or "Early history"-
Industrious! Laconic!
Punctual! Sedate!
Bold as a Brigand!
Stiller than a Fleet!
Builds, like a Bird, too!
Christ robs the Nest-
Robin after Robin
Smuggled to Rest!






Dying At My Music

Dying at my music!
Bubble! Bubble!
Hold me till the Octave's run!
Quick! Burst the Windows!
Ritardando!
Phials left, and the Sun!






Dying! Dying In The Night!

Dying! Dying in the night!
Won't somebody bring the light
So I can see which way to go
Into the everlasting snow?
And "Jesus"! Where is Jesus gone?
They said that Jesus-always came-
Perhaps he doesn't know the House-
This way, Jesus, Let him pass!
Somebody run to the great gate
And see if Dollie's coming! Wait!
I hear her feet upon the stair!
Death won't hurt-now Dollie's here!






Dying! To Be Afraid Of Thee

Dying! To be afraid of thee
One must to thine Artillery
Have left exposed a Friend-
Than thine old Arrow is a Shot
Delivered straighter to the Heart
The leaving Love behind.
Not for itself, the Dust is shy,
But, enemy, Beloved be
Thy Batteries divorce.
Fight sternly in a Dying eye
Two Armies, Love and Certainty
And Love and the Reverse.






Each Life Converges To Some Centre

Each life converges to some centre
Expressed or still;
Exists in every human nature
A goal,
Admitted scarcely to itself, it may be,
Too fair
For credibility's temerity
To dare.
Adored with caution, as a brittle heaven,
To reach
Were hopeless as the rainbow's raiment
To touch,
Yet persevered toward, surer for the distance;
How high
Unto the saints' slow diligence
The sky!
Ungained, it may be, by a life's low venture,
But then,
Eternity enables the endeavoring
Again.






Each Scar I'Ll Keep For Him

Each Scar I'll keep for Him
Instead I'll say of Gem
In His long Absence worn
A Costlier one
But every Tear I bore
Were He to count them o'er
His own would fall so more
I'll mis sum them.






Each Second Is The Last

Each Second is the last
Perhaps, recalls the Man
Just measuring unconsciousness
The Sea and Spar between.
To fail within a Chance-
How terribler a thing
Than perish from the Chance's list
Before the Perishing!






Elysium Is As Far As To

Elysium is as far as to
The very nearest Room
If in that Room a Friend await
Felicity or Doom-
What fortitude the Soul contains
That it can so endure
The accent of a coming Foot-
The opening of a Door-





Emancipation
No rack can torture me,
My soul's at liberty
Behind this mortal bone
There knits a bolder one
You cannot prick with saw,
Nor rend with scymitar.
Two bodies therefore be;
Bind one, and one will flee.
The eagle of his nest
No easier divest
And gain the sky,
Than mayest thou,
Except thyself may be
Thine enemy;
Captivity is consciousness,
So's liberty.






Embarrassment Of One Another

Embarrassment of one another
And God
Is Revelation's limit,
Aloud
Is nothing that is chief,
But still,
Divinity dwells under a seal.






Empty My Heart, Of Thee

Empty my Heart, of Thee-
Its single Artery-
Begin, and leave Thee out-
Simply Extinction's Date-
Much Billow hath the Sea-
One Baltic-They-
Subtract Thyself, in play,
And not enough of me
Is left-to put away-
"Myself" meanth Thee-
Erase the Root-no Tree-
Thee-then-no me-
The Heavens stripped-
Eternity's vast pocket, picked-











Endow The Living—with The Tears

Endow the Living—with the Tears—
You squander on the Dead,
And They were Men and Women—now,
Around Your Fireside—
Instead of Passive Creatures,
Denied the Cherishing
Till They—the Cherishing deny—
With Death's Ethereal Scron—






Escape is such a thankful Word

Escape is such a thankful Word
I often in the Night
Consider it unto myself
No spectacle in sight
Escape - it is the Basket
In which the Heart is caught
When down some awful Battlement
The rest of Life is dropt '
Tis not to sight the savior 
It is to be the saved 
And that is why I lay my Head
Upon this trusty word 





Escaping Backward To Perceive

Escaping backward to perceive
The Sea upon our place-
Escaping forward, to confront
His glittering Embrace-
Retreating up, a Billow's height
Retreating blinded down
Our undermining feet to meet
Instructs to the Divine.






Essential Oils—are Wrung

Essential Oils—are wrung—
The Attar from the Rose
Be not expressed by Suns—alone—
It is the gift of Screws—
The General Rose—decay—
But this—in Lady's Drawer
Make Summer—When the Lady lie
In Ceaseless Rosemary—






Except The Heaven Had Come So Near

Except the Heaven had come so near-
So seemed to choose My Door-
The Distance would not haunt me so-
I had not hoped-before-
But just to hear the Grace depart-
I never thought to see-
Afflicts me with a Double loss-
'Tis lost-and lost to me-






Except To Heaven, She Is Nought

Except to Heaven, she is nought.
Except for Angels-lone.
Except to some wide-wandering Bee
A flower superfluous blown.
Except for winds-provincial.
Except by Butterflies
Unnoticed as a single dew
That on the Acre lies.
The smallest Housewife in the grass,
Yet take her from the Lawn
And somebody has lost the face
That made Existence-Home!






Exclusion (The Soul Selects Her Own Society)

The soul selects her own society,
Then shuts the door;
On her divine majority
Obtrude no more.
Unmoved, she notes the chariot's pausing
At her low gate;
Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling
Upon her mat.
I've known her from an ample nation
Choose one
Then close the valves of her attention
Like stone.






Exhilaration is the Breeze

Exhilaration is the Breeze
That lifts us from the Ground
And leaves us in another place
Whose statement is not found 
Returns us not, but after time
We soberly descend
A little newer for the term
Upon Enchanted Ground 





Exhilaration—is Within

Exhilaration—is within—
There can no Outer Wine
So royally intoxicate
As that diviner Brand
The Soul achieves—Herself—
To drink—or set away
For Visitor—Or Sacrament—
'Tis not of Holiday
To stimulate a Man
Who hath the Ample Rhine
Within his Closet—Best you can
Exhale in offering.






Expectation—is Contentment

Expectation—is Contentment—
Gain—Satiety—
But Satiety—Conviction
Of Necessity
Of an Austere trait in Pleasure—
Good, without alarm
Is a too established Fortune—
Danger—deepens Sum—






Experience Is The Angled Road

Experience is the Angled Road
Preferred against the Mind
By-Paradox-the Mind itself-
Presuming it to lead
Quite Opposite-How Complicate
The Discipline of Man-
Compelling Him to Choose Himself
His Preappointed Pain-






Exultation Is The Going

Exultation is the going
Of an inland soul to sea,
Past the houses-past the headlands-
Into deep Eternity-
Bred as we, among the mountains,
Can the sailor understand
The divine intoxication
Of the first league out from land?






Fairer Through Fading—as The Day

Fairer through Fading—as the Day
Into the Darkness dips away—
Half Her Complexion of the Sun—
Hindering—Haunting—Perishing—
Rallies Her Glow, like a dying Friend—
Teasing with glittering Amend—
Only to aggravate the Dark
Through an expiring—perfect—look—






Faith

'Faith' is a fine invention
When Gentlemen can see—
But Microscopes are prudent
In an Emergency.






'Faithful To The End' Amended

'Faithful to the end' Amended
From the Heavenly Clause Constancy with a Proviso
Constancy abhors 'Crowns of Life' are servile Prizes
To the stately Heart,
Given for the Giving, solely,
No Emolument.
'Faithful to the end' Amended
From the Heavenly clause Lucrative indeed the offer
But the Heart withdraws 'I will give' the base Proviso Spare Your 'Crown of Life' Those it fits, too fair to wear it Try it on Yourself 





Faith—is The Pierless Bridge

Faith—is the Pierless Bridge
Supporting what We see
Unto the Scene that We do not—
Too slender for the eye
It bears the Soul as bold
As it were rocked in Steel
With Arms of Steel at either side—
It joins—behind the Veil
To what, could We presume
The Bridge would cease to be
To Our far, vacillating Feet
A first Necessity.






Fame Is A Bee

Fame is a bee.
It has a song-
It has a sting-
Ah, too, it has a wing.






Fame Is A Fickle Food

Fame is a fickle food
Upon a shifting plate
Whose table once a
Guest but not
The second time is set.
Whose crumbs the crows inspect
And with ironic caw
Flap past it to the Farmer's Corn-Men eat of it and die.






Fame Is The Tine That Scholars Leave

Fame is the tine that Scholars leave
Upon their Setting Names-
The Iris not of Occident
That disappears as comes-






Fame Of Myself, To Justify

Fame of Myself, to justify,
All other Plaudit be
Superfluous-An Incense
Beyond Necessity-
Fame of Myself to lack-Although
My Name be else Supreme-
This were an Honor honorless-
A futile Diadem-






Fate Slew Him, But He Did Not Drop

FATE slew him, but he did not drop;
She felled—he did not fall—
Impaled him on her fiercest stakes—
He neutralized them all.
She stung him, sapped his firm advance,
But, when her worst was done,
And he, unmoved, regarded her,
Acknowledged him a man.






Finding Is The First Act

Finding is the first Act
The second, loss,
Third, Expedition for
The "Golden Fleece"
Fourth, no Discovery-
Fifth, no Crew-
Finally, no Golden Fleece-
Jason-sham-too.






Finite—to Fail, But Infinite To Venture

Finite—to fail, but infinite to Venture—
For the one ship that struts the shore
Many's the gallant—overwhelmed Creature
Nodding in Navies nevermore—











Flowers—well—if Anybody

Flowers—Well—if anybody
Can the ecstasy define—
Half a transport—half a trouble—
With which flowers humble men:
Anybody find the fountain
From which floods so contra flow—
I will give him all the Daisies
Which upon the hillside blow.
Too much pathos in their faces
For a simple breast like mine—
Butterflies from St. Domingo
Cruising round the purple line—
Have a system of aesthetics—
Far superior to mine.






For Death—or Rather

For Death—or rather
For the Things 'twould buy—
This—put away
Life's Opportunity—
The Things that Death will buy
Are Room—
Escape from Circumstances—
And a Name—
With Gifts of Life
How Death's Gifts may compare—
We know not—
For the Rates—lie Here—






For Each Ecstatic Instant

For each ecstatic instant
We must an anguish pay
In keen and quivering ratio
To the ectasty.
For each beloved hour
Sharp pittances of years,
Bitter contested farthings
And coffers heaped with tears.






For Every Bird A Nest

For every Bird a Nest-
Wherefore in timid quest
Some little Wren goes seeking round-
Wherefore when boughs are free-
Households in every tree-
Pilgrim be found?
Perhaps a home too high-
Ah Aristocracy!
The little Wren desires-
Perhaps of twig so fine-
Of twine e'en superfine,
Her pride aspires-
The Lark is not ashamed
To build upon the ground
Her modest house-
Yet who of all the throng
Dancing around the sun
Does so rejoice?






For Largest Woman's Hearth I Knew

For largest Woman's Hearth I knew-
'Tis little I can do-
And yet the largest Woman's Heart
Could hold an Arrow-too-
And so, instructed by my own,
I tenderer, turn Me to.






For This—accepted Breath

For this—accepted Breath—
Through it—compete with Death—
The fellow cannot touch this Crown—
By it—my title take—
Ah, what a royal sake
To my necessity—stooped down!
No Wilderness—can be
Where this attendeth me—
No Desert Noon—
No fear of frost to come
Haunt the perennial bloom—
But Certain June!
Get Gabriel—to tell—the royal syllable—
Get Saints—with new—unsteady tongue—
To say what trance below
Most like their glory show—
Fittest the Crown!






Forbidden Fruit A Flavor Has

FORBIDDEN fruit a flavor has
That lawful orchards mocks;
How luscious lies the pea within
The pod that Duty locks!






Forever At His Side To Walk

Forever at His side to walk-
The smaller of the two!
Brain of His Brain-
Blood of His Blood-
Two lives-One Being-now-
Forever of His fate to taste-
If grief-the largest part-
If joy-to put my piece away
For that beloved Heart-
All life-to know each other-
Whom we can never learn-
And bye and bye-a Change-
Called Heaven-
Rapt Neighborhoods of Men-
Just finding out-what puzzled us-
Without the lexicon!






Forever—it Composed Of Nows

Forever—it composed of Nows—
'Tis not a different time—
Except for Infiniteness—
And Latitude of Home—
From this—experienced Here—
Remove the Dates—to These—
Let Months dissolve in further Months—
And Years—exhale in Years—
Without Debate—or Pause—
Or Celebrated Days—
No different Our Years would be
From Anno Domini's—






Forget! The Lady With The Amulet

Forget! The lady with the Amulet
Forget she wore it at her Heart
Because she breathed against
Was Treason twixt?
Deny! Did Rose her Bee-
For Privilege of Play
Or Wile of Butterfly
Or Opportunity-Her Lord away?
The lady with the Amulet-will face-
The Bee-in Mausoleum laid-
Discard his Bride-
But longer than the little Rill-
That cooled the Forehead of the Hill-
While Other-went the Sea to fill-
And Other-went to turn the Mill-
I'll do thy Will-






Four Trees—upon A Solitary Acre

Four Trees—upon a solitary Acre—
Without Design
Or Order, or Apparent Action—
Maintain—
The Sun—upon a Morning meets them—
The Wind—
No nearer Neighbor—have they—
But God—
The Acre gives them—Place—
They—Him—Attention of Passer by—
Of Shadow, or of Squirrel, haply—
Or Boy—
What Deed is Theirs unto the General Nature—
What Plan
They severally—retard—or further—
Unknown—






Frequently The Wood Are Pink

Frequently the wood are pink-
Frequently are brown.
Frequently the hills undress
Behind my native town.
Oft a head is crested
I was wont to see-
And as oft a cranny
Where it used to be-
And the Earth- they tell me-
On its Axis turned!
Wonderful Rotation!
By but twelve performed!






From Blank To Blank

From Blank to Blank-
A Threadless Way
I pushed Mechanic feet-
To stop-or perish-or advance-
Alike indifferent-
If end I gained
It ends beyond
Indefinite disclosed-
I shut my eyes-and groped as well
'Twas lighter-to be Blind-






From Cocoon Forth A Butterfly

From Cocoon forth a Butterfly
As Lady from her Door
Emerged-a Summer Afternoon-
Repairing Everywhere-
Without Design-that I could trace
Except to stray abroad
On Miscellaneous Enterprise
The Clovers-understood-
Her pretty Parasol be seen
Contracting in a Field
Where Men made Hay-
Then struggling hard
With an opposing Cloud-
Where Parties-Phantom as Herself-
To Nowhere-seemed to go
In purposeless Circumference-
As 'twere a Tropic Show-
And notwithstanding Bee-that worked-
And Flower-that zealous blew-
This Audience of Idleness
Disdained them, from the Sky-
Till Sundown crept-a steady Tide-
And Men that made the Hay-
And Afternoon-and Butterfly-
Extinguished-in the Sea-






From The Chrysalis

My cocoon tightens, colors tease,
I'm feeling for the air;
A dim capacity for wings
Degrades the dress I wear.
A power of butterfly must be
The aptitude to fly,
Meadows of majesty concedes
And easy sweeps of sky.
So I must baffle at the hint
And cipher at the sign,
And make much blunder, if at last
I take the clew divine.






From Us She Wandered Now A Year

From Us She wandered now a Year,
Her tarrying, unknown,
If Wilderness prevent her feet
Or that Ethereal Zone
No eye hath seen and lived
We ignorant must be-
We only know what time of Year
We took the Mystery.






Funny—to Be A Century

Funny—to be a Century—
And see the People—going by—
I—should die of the Oddity—
But then—I'm not so staid—as He—
He keeps His Secrets safely—very—
Were He to tell—extremely sorry
This Bashful Globe of Ours would be—
So dainty of Publicity—






Further In Summer Than The Birds

Further in Summer than the Birds
Pathetic from the Grass
A minor Nation celebrates
Its unobtrusive Mass.
No Ordinance be seen
So gradual the Grace
A pensive Custom it becomes
Enlarging Loneliness.
Antiquest felt at Noon
When August burning low
Arise this spectral Canticle
Repose to typify
Remit as yet no Grace
No Furrow on the Glow
Yet a Druidic Difference
Enhances Nature now






Garland For Queens, May Be

Garland for Queens, may be-
Laurels-for rare degree
Of soul or sword.
Ah-but remembering me-
Ah-but remembering thee-
Nature in chivalry-
Nature in charity-
Nature in equity-
This Rose ordained!






Give Little Anguish

Give little Anguish-
Lives will fret-
Give Avalanches-
And they'll slant-
Straighten-look cautious for their Breath-
But make no syllable-like Death-
Who only shows the Marble Disc-
Sublimer sort-than Speech-






Given In Marriage Unto Thee

Given in Marriage unto Thee
Oh thou Celestial Host-
Bride of the Father and the Son
Bride of the Holy Ghost.
Other Betrothal shall dissolve-
Wedlock of Will, decay-
Only the Keeper of this Ring
Conquer Mortality-






Glee—the Great Storm Is Over

Glee—The great storm is over—
Four—have recovered the Land—
Forty—gone down together—
Into the boiling Sand—
Ring—for the Scant Salvation—
Toll—for the bonnie Souls—
Neighbor—and friend—and Bridegroom—
Spinning upon the Shoals—
How they will tell the Story—
When Winter shake the Door—
Till the Children urge—
But the Forty—
Did they—come back no more?
Then a softness—suffuse the Story—
And a silence—the Teller's eye—
And the Children—no further question—
And only the Sea—reply—






Glory is that bright tragic thing

Glory is that bright tragic thing
That for an instant
Means Dominion Warms some poor name
That never felt the Sun,
Gently replacing
In oblivion 





Glowing Is Her Bonnet

Glowing is her Bonnet,
Glowing is her Cheek,
Glowing is her Kirtle,
Yet she cannot speak.
Better as the Daisy
From the Summer hill
Vanish unrecorded
Save by tearful rill-
Save by loving sunrise
Looking for her face.
Save by feet unnumbered
Pausing at the place.






God Gave A Loaf To Every Bird,

God gave a loaf to every bird,
But just a crumb to me;
I dare not eat it, though I starve,-My poignant luxury
To own it, touch it, prove the feat
That made the pellet mine,-Too happy in my sparrow chance
For ampler coveting.
It might be famine all around,
I could not miss an ear,
Such plenty smiles upon my board,
My garner shows so fair.
I wonder how the rich may feel,-An Indiaman--an Earl?
I deem that I with but a crumb
Am sovereign of them all.






God Is A Distant—stately Lover

God is a distant—stately Lover—
Woos, as He states us—by His Son—
Verily, a Vicarious Courtship—
"Miles", and "Priscilla", were such an One—
But, lest the Soul—like fair "Priscilla"
Choose the Envoy—and spurn the Groom—
Vouches, with hyperbolic archness—
"Miles", and "John Alden" were Synonym—






God Made A Little Gentian

God made a little Gentian-
It tried-to be a Rose-
And failed-and all the Summer laughed-
But just before the Snows
There rose a Purple Creature-
That ravished all the Hill-
And Summer hid her Forehead-
And Mockery-was still-
The Frosts were her condition-
The Tyrian would not come
Until the North-invoke it-
Creator-Shall I-bloom?






God Permit Industrious Angels

God permit industrious angels
Afternoons to play.
I met one, -- forgot my school-mates,
All, for him, straightaway.
God calls home the angels promptly
At the setting sun;
I missed mine. How dreary marbles,
After playing the Crown!






Going To Heaven!

Going to Heaven!
I don't know when-
Pray do not ask me how!
Indeed I'm too astonished
To think of answering you!
Going to Heaven!
How dim it sounds!
And yet it will be done
As sure as flocks go home at night
Unto the Shepherd's arm!
Perhaps you're going too!
Who knows?
If you should get there first
Save just a little space for me
Close to the two I lost-
The smallest "Robe" will fit me
And just a bit of "Crown"-
For you know we do not mind our dress
When we are going home-
I'm glad I don't believe it
For it would stop my breath-
And I'd like to look a little more
At such a curious Earth!
I'm glad they did believe it
Whom I have never found
Since the might Autumn afternoon
I left them in the ground.











Good Morning—midnight

Good Morning—Midnight—
I'm coming Home—
Day—got tired of Me—
How could I—of Him?
Sunshine was a sweet place—
I liked to stay—
But Morn—didn't want me—now—
So—Goodnight—Day!
I can look—can't I—
When the East is Red?
The Hills—have a way—then—
That puts the Heart—abroad—
You—are not so fair—Midnight—
I chose—Day—
But—please take a little Girl—
He turned away!






Good Night! Which Put The Candle Out?

Good night! which put the candle out?
A jealous zephyr, not a doubt.
Ah! friend, you little knew
How long at that celestial wick
The angels labored diligent;
Extinguished, now, for you!
It might have been the lighthouse spark
Some sailor, rowing in the dark,
Had importuned to see!
It might have been the waning lamp
That lit the drummer from the camp
To purer reveille!






Good Night, Because We Must

Good night, because we must,
How intricate the dust!
I would go, to know!
Oh incognito!
Saucy, Saucy Seraph
To elude me so!
Father! they won't tell me,
Won't you tell them to?






Good To Hide, And Hear 'Em Hunt!

Good to hide, and hear 'em hunt!
Better, to be found,
If one care to, that is,
The Fox fits the Hound-
Good to know, and not tell,
Best, to know and tell,
Can one find the rare Ear
Not too dull-






Gratitude—is Not The Mention

Gratitude—is not the mention
Of a Tenderness,
But its still appreciation
Out of Plumb of Speech.
When the Sea return no Answer
By the Line and Lead
Proves it there's no Sea, or rather
A remoter Bed?






Great Caesar! Condescend

Great Caesar! Condescend
The Daisy, to receive,
Gathered by Cato's Daughter,
With your majestic leave!




 





Had I Not This, Or This, I Said

Had I not This, or This, I said,
Appealing to Myself,
In moment of prosperity-
Inadequate-were Life-
"Thou hast not Me, nor Me"-it said,
In Moment of Reverse-
"And yet Thou art industrious-
No need-hadst Thou-of us"?
My need-was all I had-I said-
The need did not reduce-
Because the food-exterminate-
The hunger-does not cease-
But diligence-is sharper-
Proportioned to the Chance-
To feed upon the Retrograde-
Enfeebles-the Advance-






Had I Presumed To Hope

Had I presumed to hope-
The loss had been to Me
A Value-for the Greatness' Sake-
As Giants-gone away-
Had I presumed to gain
A Favor so remote-
The failure but confirm the Grace
In further Infinite-
'Tis failure-not of Hope-
But Confident Despair-
Advancing on Celestial Lists-
With faint-Terrestial power-
'Tis Honor-though I die-
For That no Man obtain
Till He be justified by Death-
This-is the Second Gain-






Had we our senses

Had we our senses
But perhaps 'tis well they're not at Home
So intimate with Madness
He's liable with them
Had we the eyes without our Head—
How well that we are Blind—
We could not look upon the Earth—
So utterly unmoved—






Have Any Like Myself

Have any like Myself
Investigating March,
New Houses on the Hill descried-
And possibly a Church-
That were not, We are sure-
As lately as the Snow-
And are Today-if We exist-
Though how may this be so?
Have any like Myself
Conjectured Who may be
The Occupants of the Adobes-
So easy to the Sky-
'Twould seem that God should be
The nearest Neighbor to-
And Heaven-a convenient Grace
For Show, or Company-
Have any like Myself
Preserved the Charm secure
By shunning carefully the Place
All Seasons of the Year,
Excepting March-'Tis then
My Villages be seen-
And possibly a Steeple-
Not afterward-by Men-






Have You Got A Brook In Your Little Heart

Have you got a Brook in your little heart,
Where bashful flowers blow,
And blushing birds go down to drink,
And shadows tremble so-
And nobody knows, so still it flows,
That any brook is there,
And yet your little draught of life
Is daily drunken there-
Why, look out for the little brook in March,
When the rivers overflow,
And the snows come hurrying from the fills,
And the bridges often go-
And later, in August it may be-
When the meadows parching lie,
Beware, lest this little brook of life,
Some burning noon go dry!











He Forgot—and I—remembered

He forgot—and I—remembered—
'Twas an everyday affair—
Long ago as Christ and Peter—
"Warmed them" at the "Temple fire."
"Thou wert with him"—quoth "the Damsel"?
"No"—said Peter, 'twasn't me—
Jesus merely "looked" at Peter—
Could I do aught else—to Thee?






He Fought Like Those Who'Ve Nought To Lose

He fought like those Who've nought to lose-
Bestowed Himself to Balls
As One who for a further Life
Had not a further Use-
Invited Death-with bold attempt-
But Death was Coy of Him
As Other Men, were Coy of Death-
To Him-to live-was Doom-
His Comrades, shifted like the Flakes
When Gusts reverse the Snow-
But He-was left alive Because
Of Greediness to die-






He Found My Being—set It Up

He found my Being—set it up—
Adjusted it to place—
Then carved his name—upon it—
And bade it to the East
Be faithful—in his absence—
And he would come again—
With Equipage of Amber—
That time—to take it Home—






He Fumbles At Your Soul

He fumbles at your Soul
As Players at the Keys
Before they drop full Music on-
He stuns you by degrees-
Prepares your brittle Nature
For the Ethereal Blow
By fainter Hammers-further heard-
Then nearer-Then so slow
Your Breath has time to straighten-
Your Brain-to bubble Cool-
Deals-One-imperial-Thunderbolt-
That scalps your naked Soul-
When Winds take Forests in the Paws-
The Universe-is still-






He Fumbles At Your Spirit

He fumbles at your spirit
As players at the keys
Before they drop full music on;
He stuns you by degrees,
Prepares your brittle substance
For the ethereal blow,
By fainter hammers, further heard,
Then nearer, then so slow
Your breath has time to straighten,
Your brain to bubble cool, -Deals one imperial thunderbolt
That scalps your naked soul.






He Gave Away His Life

He gave away his Life-
To Us-Gigantic Sum-
A trifle-in his own esteem-
But magnified-by Fame-
Until it burst the Hearts
That fancied they could hold-
When swift it slipped its limit-
And on the Heavens-unrolled-
'Tis Ours-to wince-and weep-
And wonder-and decay
By Blossoms gradual process-
He chose-Maturity-
And quickening-as we sowed-
Just obviated Bud-
And when We turned to note the Growth-
Broke-perfect-from the Pod-






He Outstripped Time With But A Bout

He outstripped Time with but a Bout,
He outstripped Stars and Sun
And then, unjaded, challenged God
In presence of the Throne.
And He and He in mighty List
Unto this present, run,
The larger Glory for the less
A just sufficient Ring.






He Parts Himself—like Leaves

He parts Himself—like Leaves—
And then—He closes up—
Then stands upon the Bonnet
Of Any Buttercup—
And then He runs against
And oversets a Rose—
And then does Nothing—
Then away upon a Jib—He goes—
And dangles like a Mote
Suspended in the Noon—
Uncertain—to return Below—
Or settle in the Moon—
What come of Him—at Night—
The privilege to say
Be limited by Ignorance—
What come of Him—That Day—
The Frost—possess the World—
In Cabinets—be shown—
A Sepulchre of quaintest Floss—
An Abbey—a Cocoon—









He Put The Belt Around My Life

He put the Belt around my life
I heard the Buckle snap-
And turned away, imperial,
My Lifetime folding up-
Deliberate, as a Duke would do
A Kingdom's Title Deed-
Henceforth, a Dedicated sort-
A Member of the Cloud.
Yet not too far to come at call-
And do the little Toils
That make the Circuit of the Rest-
And deal occasional smiles
To lives that stoop to notice mine-
And kindly ask it in-
Whose invitation, know you not
For Whom I must decline?






He Strained My Faith

He strained my faith-
Did he find it supple?
Shook my strong trust-
Did it then-yield?
Hurled my belief-
But-did he shatter-it?
Racked-with suspense-
Not a nerve failed!
Wrung me-with Anguish-
But I never doubted him-
'Tho' for what wrong
He did never say-
Stabbed-while I sued
His sweet forgiveness-
Jesus-it's your little "John"!
Don't you know-me?






He Told A Homely Tale

He told a homely tale
And spotted it with tears-
Upon his infant face was set
The Cicatrice of years-
All crumpled was the cheek
No other kiss had known
Than flake of snow, divided with
The Redbreast of the Barn-
If Mother-in the Grave-
Or Father-on the Sea-
Or Father in the Firmament-
Or Brethren, had he-
If Commonwealth below,
Or Commonwealth above
Have missed a Barefoot Citizen-
I've ransomed it-alive-






He Touched Me, So I Live To Know

He touched me, so I live to know
That such a day, permitted so,
I groped upon his breast-
It was a boundless place to me
And silenced, as the awful sea
Puts minor streams to rest.
And now, I'm different from before,
As if I breathed superior air-
Or brushed a Royal Gown-
My feet, too, that had wandered so-
My Gypsy face-transfigured now-
To tenderer Renown-
Into this Port, if I might come,
Rebecca, to Jerusalem,
Would not so ravished turn-
Nor Persian, baffled at her shrine
Lift such a Crucifixial sign
To her imperial Sun.






He Was Weak, And I Was Strong—then

He was weak, and I was strong—then—
So He let me lead him in—
I was weak, and He was strong then—
So I let him lead me—Home.
'Twasn't far—the door was near—
'Twasn't dark—for He went—too—
'Twasn't loud, for He said nought—
That was all I cared to know.
Day knocked—and we must part—
Neither—was strongest—now—
He strove—and I strove—too—
We didn't do it—tho'!






He Who In Himself Believes

He who in Himself believes-
Fraud cannot presume-
Faith is Constancy's Result-
And assumes-from Home-
Cannot perish, though it fail
Every second time-
But defaced Vicariously-
For Some Other Shame-






Heart, Not So Heavy As Mine

Heart, not so heavy as mine
Wending late home-
As it passed my window
Whistled itself a tune-
A careless snatch-a ballad-A ditty of the street-
Yet to my irritated Ear
An Anodyne so sweet-
It was as if a Bobolink
Sauntering this way
Carolled, and paused, and carolled-
Then bubbled slow away!
It was as if a chirping brook
Upon a dusty way-
Set bleeding feet to minuets
Without the knowing why!
Tomorrow, night will come again-
Perhaps, weary and sore-
Ah Bugle! By my window
I pray you pass once more.






Heart, We Will Forget Him

Heart, we will forget him,
You and I, tonight!
You must forget the warmth he gave,
I will forget the light.
When you have done pray tell me,
Then I, my thoughts, will dim.
Haste! ‘lest while you’re lagging
I may remember him!











Her Breast Is Fit For Pearls

Her breast is fit for pearls,
But I was not a "Diver"-
Her brow is fit for thrones
But I have not a crest.
Her heart is fit for home-
I-a Sparrow-build there
Sweet of twigs and twine
My perennial nest.






Her Final Summer Was It,

Her final summer was it,
And yet we guessed it not;
If tenderer industriousness
Pervaded her, we thought
A further force of life
Developed from within,-When Death lit all the shortness up,
And made the hurry plain.
We wondered at our blindness,-When nothing was to see
But her Carrara guide-post,-At our stupidity
When, duller than our dulness,
The busy darling lay,
So busy was she, finishing,
So leisurely were we!






Her Grace Is All She Has-

Her Grace is all she has-
And that, so least displays-
One Art to recognize, must be,
Another Art, to praise.






Her Smile Was Shaped Like Other Smiles

Her smile was shaped like other smiles-
The Dimples ran along-
And still it hurt you, as some Bird
Did hoist herself, to sing,
Then recollect a Ball, she got-
And hold upon the Twig,
Convulsive, while the Music broke-
Like Beads-among the Bog-













Her Sweet Weight On My Heart A Night

Her sweet Weight on my Heart a Night
Had scarcely deigned to lie-
When, stirring, for Belief's delight,
My Bride had slipped away-
If 'twas a Dream-made solid-just
The Heaven to confirm-
Or if Myself were dreamed of Her-
The power to presume-
With Him remain-who unto Me-
Gave-even as to All-
A Fiction superseding Faith-
By so much-as 'twas real-






Her-"Last Poems"

Her-"last Poems"-
Poets-ended-
Silver-perished-with her Tongue-
Not on Record-bubbled other,
Flute-or Woman-
So divine-
Not unto its Summer-Morning
Robin-uttered Half the Tune-
Gushed too free for the Adoring-
From the Anglo-Florentine-
Late-the Praise-
'Tis dull-conferring
On the Head too High to Crown-
Diadem-or Ducal Showing-
Be its Grave-sufficient sign-
Nought-that We-No Poet's Kinsman-
Suffocate-with easy woe-
What, and if, Ourself a Bridegroom-
Put Her down-in Italy?






Herein A Blossom Lies

Herein a Blossom lies-
A Sepulchre, between-
Cross it, and overcome the Bee-
Remain-'tis but a Rind.






High From The Earth I Heard A Bird

High from the earth I heard a bird;
He trod upon the trees
As he esteemed them trifles,
And then he spied a breeze,
And situated softly
Upon a pile of wind
Which in a perturbation
Nature had left behind.
A joyous-going fellow
I gathered from his talk,
Which both of benediction
And badinage partook,
Without apparent burden,
I learned, in leafy wood
He was the faithful father
Of a dependent brood;
And this untoward transport
His remedy for care,—
A contrast to our respites.
How different we are!






His Bill An Auger Is

His Bill an Auger is,
His Head, a Cap and Frill.
He laboreth at every Tree
A Worm, His utmost Goal.






His Feet Are Shod With Gauze

His Feet are shod with Gauze-
His Helmet, is of Gold,
His Breast, a Single Onyx
With Chrysophrase, inlaid.
His Labor is a Chant-
His Idleness-a Tune-
Oh, for a Bee's experience
Of Clovers, and of Noon!






His Heart Was Darker Than The Starless Night

His Heart was darker than the starless night
For that there is a morn
But in this black Receptacle
Can be no Bode of Dawn










Home
Years I had been from home,
And now, before the door
I dared not open, lest a face
I never saw before
Stare vacant into mine
And ask my business there.
My business, - just a life I left,
Was such still dwelling there?
I fumbled at my nerve,
I scanned the windows near;
The silence like an ocean rolled,
And broke against my ear.
I laughed a wooden laugh
That I could fear a door,
Who danger and the dead had faced,
But never quaked before.
I fitted to the latch
My hand, with trembling care,
Lest back the awful door should spring,
And leave me standing there.
I moved my fingers off
As cautiously as glass,
And held my ears, and like a thief
Fled gasping from the house.











Hope Is The Thing With Feathers
'Hope' is the thing with feathers—
That perches in the soul—
And sings the tune without the words—
And never stops—at all—
And sweetest—in the Gale—is heard—
And sore must be the storm—
That could abash the little Bird
That kept so many warm—
I've heard it in the chillest land—
And on the strangest Sea—
Yet, never, in Extremity,
It asked a crumb—of Me.






Houses—so The Wise Men Tell Me—

"Houses"—so the Wise Men tell me—
"Mansions"! Mansions must be warm!
Mansions cannot let the tears in,
Mansions must exclude the storm!
"Many Mansions," by "his Father,"
I don't know him; snugly built!
Could the Children find the way there—
Some, would even trudge tonight!






How Far Is It To Heaven?

How far is it to Heaven?
As far as Death this way-
Of River or of Ridge beyond
Was no discovery.
How far is it to Hell?
As far as Death this way-
How far left hand the Sepulchre
Defies Topography.






How firm Eternity must look

How firm Eternity must look
To crumbling men like me
The only Adamant Estate
In all Identity How mighty to the insecure
Thy Physiognomy
To whom not any Face cohere Unless concealed in thee






How fits his Umber Coat

How fits his Umber Coat
The Tailor of the Nut?
Combined without a seam
Like Raiment of a Dream Who spun the Auburn Cloth?
Computed how the girth?
The Chestnut aged grows
In those primeval Clothes We know that we are wise Accomplished in Surprise Yet by this Countryman This nature - how undone!






How Fortunate The Grave

How fortunate the Grave-
All Prizes to obtain-
Successful certain, if at last,
First Suitor not in vain.






How Happy I Was If I Could Forget

How happy I was if I could forget
To remember how sad I am
Would be an easy adversity
But the recollecting of Bloom
Keeps making November difficult
Till I who was almost bold
Lose my way like a little Child
And perish of the cold.






How Happy Is The Little Stone

How happy is the little Stone
That rambles in the Road alone,
And doesn't care about Careers
And Exigencies never fears-
Whose Coat of elemental Brown
A passing Universe put on,
And independent as the Sun
Associates or glows alone,
Fulfilling absolute Decree
In casual simplicity-






How Human Nature dotes

How Human Nature dotes
On what it can't detect.
The moment that a Plot is plumbed
Prospective is extinct Prospective is the friend
Reserved for us to know
When Constancy is clarified
Of Curiosity Of subjects that resist
Redoubtablest is this
Where go we Go we anywhere
Creation after this?









How Many Flowers Fail In Wood

How many Flowers fail in Wood-
Or perish from the Hill-
Without the privilege to know
That they are Beautiful-
How many cast a nameless Pod
Upon the nearest Breeze-
Unconscious of the Scarlet Freight-
It bear to Other Eyes-






How Many Times These Low Feet Staggered

How many times these low feet staggered-
Only the soldered mouth can tell-
Try-can you stir the awful rivet-
Try-can you lift the hasps of steel!
Stroke the cool forehead-hot so often-
Lift-if you care-the listless hair-
Handle the adamantine fingers
Never a thimble-more-shall wear-
Buzz the dull flies-on the chamber window-
Brave-shines the sun through the freckled pane-
Fearless-the cobweb swings from the ceiling-
Indolent Housewife-in Daisies-lain!








How The Waters Closed Above Him

How the Waters closed above Him
We shall never know-
How He stretched His Anguish to us
That-is covered too-
Spreads the Pond Her Base of Lilies
Bold above the Boy
Whose unclaimed Hat and Jacket
Sum the History-






How Well I Knew Her Not

How well I knew Her not
Whom not to know has been
A Bounty in prospective, now
Next Door to mine the Pain.






I am afraid to own a Body

I am afraid to own a Body
I am afraid to own a Soul 
Profound - precarious 
Property Possession, not optional 
Double Estate - entailed at pleasure
Upon an unsuspecting Heir 
Duke in a moment of Deathlessness
And God, for a Frontier.













I Asked No Other Thing

I asked no other thing-
No other-was denied-
I offered Being-for it-
The Mighty Merchant sneered-
Brazil? He twirled a Button-
Without a glance my way-
"But-Madam-is there nothing else-
That We can show-Today?"






I Bet With Every Wind That Blew

I bet with every Wind that blew
Till Nature in chagrin
Employed a Fact to visit me
And scuttle my Balloon 





I Breathed Enough To Learn The Trick,

I breathed enough to learn the trick,
And now, removed from air,
I simulate the breath so well,
That one, to be quite sure
The lungs are stirless, must descend
Among the cunning cells,
And touch the pantomime himself.
How cool the bellows feels!










I Came To Buy A Smile—today

I Came to buy a smile—today—
But just a single smile—
The smallest one upon your face
Will suit me just as well—
The one that no one else would miss
It shone so very small—
I'm pleading at the "counter"—sir—
Could you afford to sell—
I've Diamonds—on my fingers—
You know what Diamonds are?
I've Rubies—live the Evening Blood—
And Topaz—like the star!
'Twould be "a Bargain" for a Jew!
Say—may I have it—Sir?






I Can Wade Grief

I can wade Grief-
Whole Pools of it-
I'm used to that-
But the least push of Joy
Breaks up my feet-
And I tip-drunken-
Let no Pebble-smile-
'Twas the New Liquor-
That was all!
Power is only Pain-
Stranded, thro' Discipline,
Till Weights-will hang-
Give Balm-to Giants-
And they'll wilt, like Men-
Give Himmaleh-
They'll Carry-Him!






I Cannot Be Ashamed

I cannot be ashamed
Because I cannot see
The love you offer-
Magnitude
Reverses Modesty
And I cannot be proud
Because a Height so high
Involves Alpine
Requirements
And Services of Snow.








I Cautious, Scanned My Little Life

I cautious, scanned my little life-
I winnowed what would fade
From what would last till Heads like mine
Should be a-dreaming laid.
I put the latter in a Barn-
The former, blew away.
I went one winter morning
And lo - my priceless Hay
Was not upon the "Scaffold"-
Was not upon the "Beam"-
And from a thriving Farmer-
A Cynic, I became.
Whether a Thief did it-
Whether it was the wind-
Whether Deity's guiltless-
My business is, to find!
So I begin to ransack!
How is it Hearts, with Thee?
Art thou within the little Barn
Love provided Thee?






I Could Bring You Jewels—had I A Mind To

I could bring You Jewels—had I a mind to—
But You have enough—of those—
I could bring You Odors from St. Domingo—
Colors—from Vera Cruz—
Berries of the Bahamas—have I—
But this little Blaze
Flickering to itself—in the Meadow—
Suits Me—more than those—
Never a Fellow matched this Topaz—
And his Emerald Swing—
Dower itself—for Bobadilo—
Better—Could I bring?






I Could Die—to Know

I could die—to know—
'Tis a trifling knowledge—
News-Boys salute the Door—
Carts—joggle by—
Morning's bold face—stares in the window—
Were but mine—the Charter of the least Fly—
Houses hunch the House
With their Brick Shoulders—
Coals—from a Rolling Load—rattle—how—near—
To the very Square—His foot is passing—
Possibly, this moment—
While I—dream—Here—






I Could Not Drink It, Sweet

I could not drink it, Sweet,
Till You had tasted first,
Though cooler than the Water was
The Thoughtfullness of Thirst.






I Could Not Prove The Years Had Feet

I could not prove the Years had feet-
Yet confident they run
Am I, from symptoms that are past
And Series that are done-
I find my feet have further Goals-
I smile upon the Aims
That felt so ample-Yesterday-
Today's-have vaster claims-
I do not doubt the self I was
Was competent to me-
But something awkward in the fit-
Proves that-outgrown-I see-






I Could Suffice For Him, I Knew

I could suffice for Him, I knew-
He-could suffice for Me-
Yet Hesitating Fractions-Both
Surveyed Infinity-
"Would I be Whole" He sudden broached-
My syllable rebelled-
'Twas face to face with Nature-forced-
'Twas face to face with God-
Withdrew the Sun-to Other Wests-
Withdrew the furthest Star
Before Decision-stooped to speech-
And then-be audibler
The Answer of the Sea unto
The Motion of the Moon-
Herself adjust Her Tides-unto-
Could I-do else-with Mine?











I Died For Beauty

I died for beauty, but was scarce
Adjusted in the tomb,
When one who died for truth was lain
In an adjoining room.
He questioned softly why I failed?
"For beauty," I replied.
"And I for truth - the two are one;
We brethren are," he said.
And so, as kinsmen met a-night,
We talked between the rooms,
Until the moss had reached our lips,
And covered up our names.






I Died For Beauty But Was Scarce

I died for beauty but was scarce
Adjusted in the tomb,
When one who died for truth was lain
In an adjoining room.
He questioned softly why I failed?
'For beauty,' I replied.
'And I for truth,--the two are one;
We brethren are,' he said.
And so, as kinsmen met a night,
We talked between the rooms,
Until the moss had reached our lips,
And covered up our names.









I Dwell In Possibility

I dwell in Possibility-
A fairer House than Prose-
More numerous of Windows-
Superior-for Doors-
Of Chambers as the Cedars-
Impregnable of Eye-
And for an Everlasting Roof
The Gambrels of the Sky-
Of Visitors-the fairest-
For Occupation-This-
The spreading wide of narrow Hands
To gather Paradise-






I Envy Seas, Whereon He Rides

I envy Seas, whereon He rides-
I envy Spokes of Wheels
Of Chariots, that Him convey-
I envy Crooked Hills
That gaze upon His journey-
How easy All can see
What is forbidden utterly
As Heaven-unto me!
I envy Nests of Sparrows-
That dot His distant Eaves-
The wealthy Fly, upon His Pane-
The happy-happy Leaves-
That just abroad His Window
Have Summer's leave to play-
The Ear Rings of Pizarro
Could not obtain for me-
I envy Light-that wakes Him-
And Bells-that boldly ring
To tell Him it is Noon, abroad-
Myself-be Noon to Him-
Yet interdict-my Blossom-
And abrogate-my Bee-
Lest Noon in Everlasting Night-
Drop Gabriel-and Me-






I Fear A Man Of Frugal Speech

I fear a Man of frugal Speech-
I fear a Silent Man-
Haranguer-I can overtake-
Or Babbler-entertain-
But He who weigheth-While the Rest-
Expend their furthest pound-
Of this Man-I am wary-
I fear that He is Grand-






I Felt A Cleaving In My Mind

I felt a cleaving in my mind
As if my brain had split;
I tried to match it, seam by seam,
But could not make them fit.
The thought behind I strove to join
Unto the thought before,
But sequence ravelled out of reach
Like balls upon a floor.










I Felt My Life With Both My Hands

I felt my life with both my hands
To see if it was there-
I held my spirit to the Glass,
To prove it possibler-
I turned my Being round and round
And paused at every pound
To ask the Owner's name-
For doubt, that I should know the Sound-
I judged my features-jarred my hair-
I pushed my dimples by, and waited-
If they-twinkled back-
Conviction might, of me-
I told myself, "Take Courage, Friend-
That-was a former time-
But we might learn to like the Heaven,
As well as our Old Home!"






I Found The Phrase To Every Thought

I found the phrase to every thought
I ever had, but one;
And that defies me,--as a hand
Did try to chalk the sun
To races nurtured in the dark;-How would your own begin?
Can blaze be done in cochineal,
Or noon in mazarin?






I Gained It So

I gained it so-
By Climbing slow-
By Catching at the Twigs that grow
Between the Bliss-and me-
It hung so high
As well the Sky
Attempt by Strategy-
I said I gained it-
This-was all-
Look, how I clutch it
Lest it fall-
And I a Pauper go-
Unfitted by an instant's Grace
For the Contented-Beggar's face
I wore-an hour ago-






I Gave Myself To Him

I gave myself to Him-
And took Himself, for Pay,
The solemn contract of a Life
Was ratified, this way-
The Wealth might disappoint-
Myself a poorer prove
Than this great Purchaser suspect,
The Daily Own-of Love
Depreciate the Vision-
But till the Merchant buy-
Still Fable-in the Isles of Spice-
The subtle Cargoes-lie-
At least-'tis Mutual-Risk-
Some-found it-Mutual Gain-
Sweet Debt of Life-Each Night to owe-
Insolvent-every Noon-






I Got So I Could Take His Name

I got so I could take his name-
Without-Tremendous gain-
That Stop-sensation-on my Soul-
And Thunder-in the Room-
I got so I could walk across
That Angle in the floor,
Where he turned so, and I turned-how-
And all our Sinew tore-
I got so I could stir the Box-
In which his letters grew
Without that forcing, in my breath-
As Staples-driven through-
Could dimly recollect a Grace-
I think, they call it "God"-
Renowned to ease Extremity-
When Formula, had failed-
And shape my Hands-
Petition's way,
Tho' ignorant of a word
That Ordination-utters-
My Business, with the Cloud,
If any Power behind it, be,
Not subject to Despair-
It care, in some remoter way,
For so minute affair
As Misery-
Itself, too vast, for interrupting-more-












I Had No Cause To Be Awake

I had no Cause to be awake-
My Best-was gone to sleep-
And Morn a new politeness took-
And failed to wake them up-
But called the others-clear-
And passed their Curtains by-
Sweet Morning-when I oversleep-
Knock-Recollect-to Me-
I looked at Sunrise-Once-
And then I looked at Them-
And wishfulness in me arose-
For Circumstance the same-
'Twas such an Ample Peace-
It could not hold a Sigh-
'Twas Sabbath-with the Bells divorced-
'Twas Sunset-all the Day-
So choosing but a Gown-
And taking but a Prayer-
The only Raiment I should need-
I struggled-and was There-






I Had No Time To Hate, Because

I had no time to hate, because
The grave would hinder me,
And life was not so ample I
Could finish enmity.
Nor had I time to love, but since
Some industry must be,
The little toil of love, I thought,
Was large enough for me.






I Had Not Minded—walls

I had not minded—Walls—
Were Universe—one Rock—
And fr I heard his silver Call
The other side the Block—
I'd tunnel—till my Groove
Pushed sudden thro' to his—
Then my face take her Recompense—
The looking in his Eyes—
But 'tis a single Hair—
A filament—a law—
A Cobweb—wove in Adamant—
A Battlement—of Straw—
A limit like the Veil
Unto the Lady's face—
But every Mesh—a Citadel—
And Dragons—in the Crease—






I Had Some Things That I Called Mine

I had some things that I called mine-
And God, that he called his,
Till, recently a rival Claim
Disturbed these amities.
The property, my garden,
Which having sown with care,
He claims the pretty acre,
And sends a Bailiff there.
The station of the parties
Forbids publicity,
But Justice is sublimer
Than arms, or pedigree.
I'll institute an "Action"-
I'll vindicate the law-
Jove! Choose your counsel-
I retain "Shaw"!






I Had The Glory—that Will Do

I had the Glory—that will do—
An Honor, Thought can turn her to
When lesser Fames invite—
With one long "Nay"—
Bliss' early shape
Deforming—Dwindling—Gulfing up—
Time's possibility.











I Have A King, Who Does Not Speak

I have a King, who does not speak-
So-wondering-thro' the hours meek
I trudge the day away-
Half glad when it is night, and sleep,
If, haply, thro' a dream, to peep
In parlors, shut by day.
And if I do-when morning comes-
It is as if a hundred drums
Did round my pillow roll,
And shouts fill all my Childish sky,
And Bells keep saying "Victory"
From steeples in my soul!
And if I don't-the little Bird
Within the Orchard, is not heard,
And I omit to pray
"Father, thy will be done" today
For my will goes the other way,
And it were perjury!






I Have Never Seen "Volcanoes"

I have never seen "Volcanoes"-
But, when Travellers tell
How those old-phlegmatic mountains
Usually so still-
Bear within-appalling Ordnance,
Fire, and smoke, and gun,
Taking Villages for breakfast,
And appalling Men-
If the stillness is Volcanic
In the human face
When upon a pain Titanic
Features keep their place-
If at length the smouldering anguish
Will not overcome-
And the palpitating Vineyard
In the dust, be thrown?
If some loving Antiquary,
On Resumption Morn,
Will not cry with joy "Pompeii"!
To the Hills return!






I Have No Life But This

I have no life but this,
To lead it here;
Nor any death, but lest
Dispelled from there;
Nor tie to earths to come,
Nor action new,
Except through this extent,
The Realm of You!






I Haven'T Told My Garden Yet

I haven't told my garden yet-
Lest that should conquer me.
I haven't quite the strength now
To break it to the Bee-
I will not name it in the street
For shops would stare at me-
That one so shy-so ignorant
Should have the face to die.
The hillsides must not know it-
Where I have rambled so-
Nor tell the loving forests
The day that I shall go-
Nor lisp it at the table-
Nor heedless by the way
Hint that within the Riddle
One will walk today-






I Heard A Fly Buzz When I Died;

I heard a fly buzz when I died;
The stillness round my form
Was like the stillness in the air
Between the heaves of storm.
The eyes beside had wrung them dry,
And breaths were gathering sure
For that last onset, when the king
Be witnessed in his power.
I willed my keepsakes, signed away
What portion of me I
Could make assignable,--and then
There interposed a fly,
With blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz,
Between the light and me;
And then the windows failed, and then
I could not see to see.






I Held A Jewel In My Fingers

I held a Jewel in my fingers—
And went to sleep—
The day was warm, and winds were prosy—
I said ''Twill keep'—
I woke—and chid my honest fingers,
The Gem was gone—
And now, an Amethyst remembrance
Is all I own—






I Hide Myself Within My Flower

I hide myself within my flower,
That fading from your Vase,
You, unsuspecting, feel for me-
Almost a loneliness.






I Keep My Pledge

I keep my pledge.
I was not called-
Death did not notice me.
I bring my Rose.
I plight again,
By every sainted Bee-
By Daisy called from hillside-
by Bobolink from lane.
Blossom and I-
Her oath, and mine-
Will surely come again.






I Know A Place Where Summer Strives

I know a place where summer strives
With such a practised frost,
She each year leads her daisies back,
Recording briefly, 'Lost.'
But when the south wind stirs the pools
And struggles in the lanes,
Her heart misgives her for her vow,
And she pours soft refrains
Into the lap of adamant,
And spices, and the dew,
That stiffens quietly to quartz
Upon her amber shoe.






I Know Lives, I Could Miss

I know lives, I could miss
Without a Misery-
Others-whose instant's wanting-
Would be Eternity-
The last-a scanty Number-
'Twould scarcely fill a Two-
The first-a Gnat's Horizon
Could easily outgrow-








As the third Sycamore-
Screams Chanticleer
"Who's there"?
And Echoes-Trains away,
Sneer-"Where"!
While the old Couple, just astir,
Fancy the Sunrise-left the door ajar!






I Know That He Exists

I know that He exists.
Somewhere-in Silence-
He has hid his rare life
From our gross eyes.
'Tis an instant's play.
'Tis a fond Ambush-
Just to make Bliss
Earn her own surprise!
But-should the play
Prove piercing earnest-
Should the glee-glaze-
In Death's-stiff-stare-
Would not the fun
Look too expensive!
Would not the jest-
Have crawled too far!






I Know Where Wells Grow—droughtless Wells

I know where Wells grow—Droughtless Wells—
Deep dug—for Summer days—
Where Mosses go no more away—
And Pebble—safely plays—
It's made of Fathoms—and a Belt—
A Belt of jagged Stone—
Inlaid with Emerald—half way down—
And Diamonds—jumbled on—
It has no Bucket—Were I rich
A Bucket I would buy—
I'm often thirsty—but my lips
Are so high up—You see—
I read in an Old fashioned Book
That People "thirst no more"—
The Wells have Buckets to them there—
It must mean that—I'm sure—
Shall We remember Parching—then?
Those Waters sound so grand—
I think a little Well—like Mine—
Dearer to understand—








I Like A Look Of Agony

I like a look of Agony,
Because I know it's true-
Men do not sham Convulsion,
Nor simulate, a Throe-
The Eyes glaze once-and that is Death-
Impossible to feign
The Beads upon the Forehead
By homely Anguish strung.






I Like To See It Lap The Miles,
I like to see it lap the miles,
And lick the valleys up,
And stop to feed itself at tanks;
And then, prodigious, step
Around a pile of mountains,
And, supercilious, peer
In shanties by the sides of roads;
And then a quarry pare
To fit its sides, and crawl between,
Complaining all the while
In horrid, hooting stanza;
Then chase itself down hill
And neigh like Boanerges;
Then, punctual as a star,
Stop--docile and omnipotent-At its own stable door.






I Live With Him—i See His Face

I live with Him—I see His face—
I go no more away
For Visitor—or Sundown—
Death's single privacy
The Only One—forestalling Mine—
And that—by Right that He
Presents a Claim invisible—
No wedlock—granted Me—
I live with Him—I hear His Voice—
I stand alive—Today—
To witness to the Certainty
Of Immortality—
Taught Me—by Time—the lower Way—
Conviction—Every day—
That Life like This—is stopless—
Be Judgment—what it may—






I Lived On Dread

I lived on Dread-
To Those who know
The Stimulus there is
In Danger-Other impetus
Is numb-and Vitalless-
As 'twere a Spur-upon the Soul-
A Fear will urge it where
To go without the Sceptre's aid
Were Challenging Despair.






I Lived On Dread; To Those Who Know

I lived on dread; to those who know
The stimulus there is
In danger, other impetus
Is numb and vital-less.
As't were a spur upon the soul,
A fear will urge it where
To go without the spectre's aid
Were challenging despair.






I Lost A World - The Other Day!

I lost a World - the other day!
Has Anybody found?
You'll know it by the Row of Stars
Around its forehead bound.
A Rich man-might not notice it-
Yet-to my frugal Eye,
Of more Esteem than Ducats-
Oh find it-Sir-for me!






I Made Slow Riches But My Gain

I made slow Riches but my Gain
Was steady as the Sun
And every Night, it numbered more
Than the preceding One
All Days, I did not earn the same
But my perceiveless Gain
Inferred the less by Growing than
The Sum that it had grown.






I Make His Crescent Fill Or Lack

I make His Crescent fill or lack-
His Nature is at Full
Or Quarter-as I signify-
His Tides-do I control-
He holds superior in the Sky
Or gropes, at my Command
Behind inferior Clouds-or round
A Mist's slow Colonnade-
But since We hold a Mutual Disc-
And front a Mutual Day-
Which is the Despot, neither knows-
Nor Whose-the Tyranny-






I Many Times Thought Peace Had Come

I many times thought Peace had come
When Peace was far away—
As Wrecked Men—deem they sight the Land—
At Centre of the Sea—
And struggle slacker—but to prove
As hopelessly as I—
How many the fictitious Shores—
Before the Harbor be—






I Meant To Find Her When I Came

I meant to find Her when I came-
Death-had the same design-
But the Success-was His-it seems-
And the Surrender-Mine-
I meant to tell Her how I longed
For just this single time-
But Death had told Her so the first-
And she had past, with Him-
To wander-now-is my Repose-
To rest-To rest would be
A privilege of Hurricane
To Memory-and Me.






I Meant To Have But Modest Needs

I meant to have but modest needs-
Such as Content-and Heaven-
Within my income-these could lie
And Life and I-keep even-
But since the last-included both-
It would suffice my Prayer
But just for One-to stipulate-
And Grace would grant the Pair-
And so-upon this wise-I prayed-
Great Spirit-Give to me
A Heaven not so large as Yours,
But large enough-for me-
A Smile suffused Jehovah's face-
The Cherubim-withdrew-
Grave Saints stole out to look at me-
And showed their dimples-too-
I left the Place, with all my might-
I threw my Prayer away-
The Quiet Ages picked it up-
And Judgment-twinkled-too-
Tat one so honest-be extant-
It take the Tale for true-
That "Whatsoever Ye shall ask-
Itself be given You"-
But I, grown shrewder-scan the Skies
With a suspicious Air-
As Children-swindled for the first
All Swindlers-be-infer-







I Ment To Find Her When I Came;

I meant to find her when I came;
Death had the same design;
But the success was his, it seems,
And the discomfit mine.
I meant to tell her how I longed
For just this single time;
But Death had told her so the first,
And she had hearkened him.
To wander now is my abode;
To rest,--to rest would be
A privilege of hurricane
To memory and me.






I Met A King This Afternoon!

I met a King this afternoon!
He had not on a Crown indeed,
A little Palmleaf Hat was all,
And he was barefoot, I'm afraid!
But sure I am he Ermine wore
Beneath his faded Jacket's blue-
And sure I am, the crest he bore
Within that Jacket's pocket too!
For 'twas too stately for an Earl-
A Marquis would not go so grand!
'Twas possibly a Czar petite-
A Pope, or something of that kind!
If I must tell you, of a Horse
My freckled Monarch held the rein-
Doubtless an estimable Beast,
But not at all disposed to run!
And such a wagon! While I live
Dare I presume to see
Another such a vehicle
As then transported me!
Two other ragged Princes
His royal state partook!
Doubtless the first excursion
These sovereigns ever took!
I question if the Royal Coach
Round which the Footmen wait
Has the significance, on high,
Of this Barefoot Estate!






I Never Felt At Home—below

I never felt at Home—Below—And in the Handsome Skies
I shall not feel at Home—I know—
I don't like Paradise—
Because it's Sunday—all the time—
And Recess—never comes—
And Eden'll be so lonesome
Bright Wednesday Afternoons—
If God could make a visit—
Or ever took a Nap—
So not to see us—but they say
Himself—a Telescope
Perennial beholds us—
Myself would run away
From Him—and Holy Ghost—and All—
But there's the "Judgement Day"!






I Never Hear The Word 'Escape'

I never hear the word 'escape'
Without a quicker blood,
A sudden expectation,
A flying attitude.
I never hear of prisons broad
By soldiers battered down,
But I tug childish at my bars, -Only to fail again!






I Never Lost As Much But Twice

I never lost as much but twice,
And that was in the sod.
Twice have I stood a beggar
Before the door of God!
Angels-twice descending
Reimbursed my store-
Burglar! Banker-Father!
I am poor once more!






I Never Saw A Moor

I never saw a moor;
I never saw the sea,
Yet know I how the heather looks
And what a billow be.
I never spoke with God,
Nor visited in heaven.
Yet certain am I of the spot
As if the checks were given.






I Never Told The Buried Gold

I never told the buried gold
Upon the hill-that lies-
I saw the sun-his plunder done
Crouch low to guard his prize.
He stood as near
As stood you here-
A pace had been between-
Did but a snake bisect the brake
My life had forfeit been.
That was a wondrous booty-
I hope 'twas honest gained.
Those were the fairest ingots
That ever kissed the spade!
Whether to keep the secret-
Whether to reveal-
Whether as I ponder
Kidd will sudden sail-
Could a shrewd advise me
We might e'en divide-
Should a shrewd betray me-
Atropos decide!






I Noticed People Disappeared

I noticed People disappeared
When but a little child 
Supposed they visited remote
Or settled Regions wild 
But did because they died
A Fact withheld the little child 





I Often Passed The Village

I often passed the village
When going home from school-
And wondered what they did there-
And why it was so still-
I did not know the year then-
In which my call would come-
Earlier, by the Dial,
Than the rest have gone.
It's stiller than the sundown.
It's cooler than the dawn-
The Daisies dare to come here-
And birds can flutter down-
So when you are tired-
Or perplexed-or cold-
Trust the loving promise
Underneath the mould,
Cry "it's I," "take Dollie,"
And I will enfold!






I Pay—in Satin Cash

I pay—in Satin Cash—
You did not state—your price—
A Petal, for a Paragraph
It near as I can guess—






I Play At Riches—to Appease

I play at Riches—to appease
The Clamoring for Gold—
It kept me from a Thief, I think,
For often, overbold
With Want, and Opportunity—
I could have done a Sin
And been Myself that easy Thing
An independent Man—
But often as my lot displays
Too hungry to be borne
I deem Myself what I would be—
And novel Comforting
My Poverty and I derive—
We question if the Man—
Who own—Esteem the Opulence—
As We—Who never Can—
Should ever these exploring Hands
Chance Sovereign on a Mine—
Or in the long—uneven term
To win, become their turn—
How fitter they will be—for Want—
Enlightening so well—
I know not which, Desire, or Grant—
Be wholly beautiful—






I Prayed, At First, A Little Girl

I prayed, at first, a little Girl,
Because they told me to-
But stopped, when qualified to guess
How prayer would feel-to me-
If I believed God looked around,
Each time my Childish eye
Fixed full, and steady, on his own
In Childish honesty-
And told him what I'd like, today,
And parts of his far plan
That baffled me-
The mingled side
Of his Divinity-
And often since, in Danger,
I count the force 'twould be
To have a God so strong as that
To hold my life for me
Till I could take the Balance
That tips so frequent, now,
It takes me all the while to poise-
And then-it doesn't stay-






I Read My Sentence—steadily

I read my sentence—steadily—
Reviewed it with my eyes,
To see that I made no mistake
In its extremest clause—
The Date, and manner, of the shame—
And then the Pious Form
That "God have mercy" on the Soul
The Jury voted Him—
I made my soul familiar—with her extremity—
That at the last, it should not be a novel Agony—
But she, and Death, acquainted—
Meet tranquilly, as friends—
Salute, and pass, without a Hint—
And there, the Matter ends—






I Reason, Earth Is Short

I reason, Earth is short-
And Anguish-absolute-
And many hurt,
But, what of that?
I reason, we could die-
The best Vitality
Cannot excel Decay,
But, what of that?
I reason, that in Heaven-
Somehow, it will be even-
Some new Equation, given-
But, what of that?






I Reckon—when I Count It All

I reckon—when I count it all—
First—Poets—Then the Sun—
Then Summer—Then the Heaven of God—
And then—the List is done—
But, looking back—the First so seems
To Comprehend the Whole—
The Others look a needless Show—
So I write—Poets—All—
Their Summer—lasts a Solid Year—
They can afford a Sun
The East—would deem extravagant—
And if the Further Heaven—
Be Beautiful as they prepare
For Those who worship Them—
It is too difficult a Grace—
To justify the Dream—






I Robbed The Woods

I robbed the Woods-
The trusting Woods.
The unsuspecting Trees
Brought out their Burs and mosses
My fantasy to please.
I scanned their trinkets curious-I grasped-I bore away-
What will the solemn Hemlock-
What will the Oak tree say?






I Rose—because He Sank

I rose—because He sank—
I thought it would be opposite—
But when his power dropped—
My Soul grew straight.
I cheered my fainting Prince—
I sang firm—even—Chants—
I helped his Film—with Hymn—
And when the Dews drew off
That held his Forehead stiff—
I met him—
Balm to Balm—
I told him Best—must pass
Through this low Arch of Flesh—
No Casque so brave
It spurn the Grave—
I told him Worlds I knew
Where Emperors grew—
Who recollected us
If we were true—
And so with Thews of Hymn—
And Sinew from within—
And ways I knew not that I knew—till then—
I lifted Him—






I Saw No Way—the Heavens Were Stitched

I saw no Way—The Heavens were stitched—
I felt the Columns close—
The Earth reversed her Hemispheres—
I touched the Universe—
And back it slid—and I alone—
A Speck upon a Ball—
Went out upon Circumference—
Beyond the Dip of Bell—






I Saw The Wind Within Her

I saw the wind within her
I knew it blew for me —
But she must buy my shelter
I asked Humility






I See Thee Better—in The Dark

I see thee better—in the Dark—
I do not need a Light—
The Love of Thee—a Prism be—
Excelling Violet—
I see thee better for the Years
That hunch themselves between—
The Miner's Lamp—sufficient be—
To nullify the Mine—
And in the Grave—I see Thee best—
Its little Panels be
Aglow—All ruddy—with the Light
I held so high, for Thee—
What need of Day—
To Those whose Dark—hath so—surpassing Sun—
It deem it be—Continually—
At the Meridian?






I Send Two Sunsets

I send Two Sunsets-
Day and I-in competition ran-
I finished Two-and several Stars-
While He-was making One-
His own was ampler-but as I
Was saying to a friend-
Mine-is the more convenient
To Carry in the Hand-






I Shall Keep Singing!

I shall keep singing!
Birds will pass me
On their way to Yellower Climes-
Each-with a Robin's expectation-
I-with my Redbreast-
And my Rhymes-
Late-when I take my place in summer-
But-I shall bring a fuller tune-
Vespers-are sweeter than Matins-Signor-
Morning-only the seed of Noon-






I Shall Know Why—when Time Is Over

I shall know why—when Time is over—
And I have ceased to wonder why—
Christ will explain each separate anguish
In the fair schoolroom of the sky—
He will tell me what "Peter" promised—
And I—for wonder at his woe—
I shall forget the drop of Anguish
That scalds me now—that scalds me now!






I Should Have Been Too Glad, I See

I should have been too glad, I see-
Too lifted-for the scant degree
Of Life's penurious Round-
My little Circuit would have shamed
This new Circumference-have blamed-
The homelier time behind.
I should have been too saved-I see-
Too rescued-Fear too dim to me
That I could spell the Prayer
I knew so perfect-yesterday-
That Scalding One-Sabachthani-
Recited fluent-here-
Earth would have been too much-I see-
And Heaven-not enough for me-
I should have had the Joy
Without the Fear-to justify-
The Palm-without the Calvary-
So Savior-Crucify-
Defeat-whets Victory-they say-
The Reefs-in old Gethsemane-
Endear the Coast-beyond!
'Tis Beggars-Banquets-can define-
'Tis Parching-vitalizes Wine-
"Faith" bleats-to understand!






I Should Not Dare To Leave My Friend

I should not dare to leave my friend,
Because-because if he should die
While I was gone-and I-too late-
Should reach the Heart that wanted me-
If I should disappoint the eyes
That hunted-hunted so-to see-
And could not bear to shut until
They "noticed" me-they noticed me-
If I should stab the patient faith
So sure I'd come-so sure I'd come-
It listening-listening-went to sleep-
Telling my tardy name-
My Heart would wish it broke before-
Since breaking then-since breaking then-
Were useless as next morning's sun-
Where midnight frosts-had lain!






I Showed Her Heights She Never Saw

I showed her Heights she never saw-
"Would'st Climb," I said?
She said-"Not so"-
"With me-" I said-With me?
I showed her Secrets-Morning's Nest-
The Rope the Nights were put across-
And now-"Would'st have me for a Guest?"
She could not find her Yes-
And then, I brake my life-And Lo,
A Light, for her, did solemn glow,
The larger, as her face withdrew-
And could she, further, "No"?






I Sing To Use The Waiting

I sing to use the Waiting
My Bonnet but to tie
And shut the Door unto my House
No more to do have I
Till His best step approaching
We journey to the Day
And tell each other how We sung
To Keep the Dark away.






I Sometimes Drop It, For A Quick

I sometimes drop it, for a Quick-
The Thought to be alive-
Anonymous Delight to know-
And Madder-to conceive-
Consoles a Woe so monstrous
That did it tear all Day,
Without an instant's Respite-
'Twould look too far-to Die-









I Stepped From Plank To Plank
I stepped from plank to plank
So slow and cautiously;
The stars about my head I felt,
About my feet the sea.
I knew not but the next
Would be my final inch,-This gave me that precarious gait
Some call experience.






I Stole Them From A Bee

I stole them from a Bee-
Because-Thee-
Sweet plea-
He pardoned me!






I Taste A Liquor Never Brewed

I taste a liquor never brewed,
From tankards scooped in pearl;
Not all the vats upon the Rhine
Yield such an alcohol!
Inebriate of air am I,
And debauchee of dew,
Reeling, through endless summer days,
From inns of molten blue.
When the landlord turn the drunken bee
Out of the foxglove's door,
When butterflies renounce their drams,
I shall but drink the more!
Till seraphs swing their snowy hats,
And saints to windows run,
To see the little tippler
Leaning against the sun!






I Tend My Flowers For Thee

I tend my flowers for thee-
Bright Absentee!
My Fuchsia's Coral Seams
Rip-while the Sower-dreams-
Geraniums-tint-and spot-
Low Daisies-dot-
My Cactus-splits her Beard
To show her throat-
Carnations-tip their spice-
And Bees-pick up-
A Hyacinth-I hid-
Puts out a Ruffled Head-
And odors fall
From flasks-so small-
You marvel how they held-
Globe Roses-break their satin glake-
Upon my Garden floor-
Yet-thou-not there-
I had as lief they bore
No Crimson-more-
Thy flower-be gay-
Her Lord-away!
It ill becometh me-
I'll dwell in Calyx-Gray-
How modestly-alway-
Thy Daisy-
Draped for thee!






I Think I Was Enchanted

I think I was enchanted
When first a sombre Girl-
I read that Foreign Lady-
The Dark-felt beautiful-
And whether it was noon at night-
Or only Heaven-at Noon-
For very Lunacy of Light
I had not power to tell-
The Bees-became as Butterflies-
The Butterflies-as Swans-
Approached-and spurned the narrow Grass-
And just the meanest Tunes
That Nature murmured to herself
To keep herself in Cheer-
I took for Giants-practising
Titanic Opera-
The Days-to Mighty Metres stept-
The Homeliest-adorned
As if unto a Jubilee
'Twere suddenly confirmed-
I could not have defined the change-
Conversion of the Mind
Like Sanctifying in the Soul-
Is witnessed-not explained-
'Twas a Divine Insanity-
The Danger to be Sane
Should I again experience-
'Tis Antidote to turn-
To Tomes of solid Witchcraft-
Magicians be asleep-





But Magic-hath an Element
Like Deity-to keep-






I Think Just How My Shape Will Rise

I think just how my shape will rise-
When I shall be "forgiven"-
Till Hair-and Eyes-and timid Head-
Are out of sight-in Heaven-
I think just how my lips will weigh-
With shapeless-quivering-prayer-
That you-so late-"Consider" me-
The "Sparrow" of your Care-
I mind me that of Anguish-sent-
Some drifts were moved away-
Before my simple bosom-broke-
And why not this-if they?
And so I con that thing-"forgiven"-
Until-delirious-borne-
By my long bright-and longer-trust-
I drop my Heart-unshriven!






I Think The Hemlock Likes To Stand

I think the Hemlock likes to stand
Upon a Marge of Snow-
It suits his own Austerity-
And satisfies an awe
That men, must slake in Wilderness-
And in the Desert-cloy-
An instinct for the Hoar, the Bald-
Lapland's-necessity-
The Hemlock's nature thrives-on cold-
The Gnash of Northern winds
Is sweetest nutriment-to him-
His best Norwegian Wines-
To satin Races-he is nought-
But Children on the Don,
Beneath his Tabernacles, play,
And Dnieper Wrestlers, run.






I Think The Longest Hour Of All

I think the longest Hour of all
Is when the Cars have come-
And we are waiting for the Coach-
It seems as though the Time
Indignant-that the Joy was come-
Did block the Gilded Hands-
And would not let the Seconds by-
But slowest instant-ends-
The Pendulum begins to count-
Like little Scholars-loud-
The steps grow thicker-in the Hall-
The Heart begins to crowd-
Then I-my timid service done-
Tho' service 'twas, of Love-
Take up my little Violin-
And further North-remove.







I Tie My Hat—i Crease My Shawl

I tie my Hat—I crease my Shawl—
Life's little duties do—precisely—
As the very least
Were infinite—to me—
I put new Blossoms in the Glass—
And throw the old—away—
I push a petal from my gown
That anchored there—I weigh
The time 'twill be till six o'clock
I have so much to do—
And yet—Existence—some way back—
Stopped—struck—my tickling—through—
We cannot put Ourself away
As a completed Man
Or Woman—When the Errand's done
We came to Flesh—upon—
There may be—Miles on Miles of Nought—
Of Action—sicker far—
To simulate—is stinging work—
To cover what we are
From Science—and from Surgery—
Too Telescopic Eyes
To bear on us unshaded—
For their—sake—not for Ours—
'Twould start them—
We—could tremble—
But since we got a Bomb—
And held it in our Bosom—
Nay—Hold it—it is calm—
Therefore—we do life's labor—
Though life's Reward—be done—
With scrupulous exactness—
To hold our Senses—on—











I Took My Power In My Hand

I took my Power in my Hand-
And went against the World-
'Twas not so much as David-had-
But I-was twice as bold-
I aimed by Pebble-but Myself
Was all the one that fell-
Was it Goliath-was too large-
Or was myself-too small?






I Tried To Think A Lonelier Thing

I tried to think a lonelier Thing
Than any I had seen-
Some Polar Expiation-An Omen in the Bone
Of Death's tremendous nearness-
I probed Retrieverless things
My Duplicate-to borrow-
A Haggard Comfort springs
From the belief that Somewhere-
Within the Clutch of Thought-
There dwells one other Creature
Of Heavenly Love-forgot-
I plucked at our Partition
As One should pry the Walls-
Between Himself-and Horror's Twin-
Within Opposing Cells-
I almost strove to clasp his Hand,
Such Luxury-it grew-
That as Myself-could pity Him-
Perhaps he-pitied me-






I Want—it Pleaded—all Its Life—

"I want"—it pleaded—All its life—
I want—was chief it said
When Skill entreated it—the last—
And when so newly dead—
I could not deem it late—to hear
That single—steadfast sigh—
The lips had placed as with a "Please"
Toward Eternity—






I Was The Slightest In The House

I was the slightest in the House-
I took the smallest Room-
At night, my little Lamp, and Book-
And one Geranium-
So stationed I could catch the Mint
That never ceased to fall-
And just my Basket-
Let me think-I'm sure-
That this was all-
I never spoke-unless addressed-
And then, 'twas brief and low-
I could not bear to live-aloud-
The Racket shamed me so-
And if it had not been so far-
And any one I knew
Were going-I had often thought
How noteless-I could die-







I Went To Heaven,-

I went to heaven,-
'T was a small town,
Lit with a ruby,
Lathed with down.
Stiller than the fields
At the full dew,
Beautiful as pictures
No man drew.
People like the moth,
Of mechlin, frames,
Duties of gossamer,
And eider names.
Almost contented
I could be
'Mong such unique
Society.






I Went To Thank Her

I went to thank Her-
But She Slept-
Her Bed-a funneled Stone-
With Nosegays at the Head and Foot-
That Travellers-had thrown-
Who went to thank Her-
But She Slept-
'Twas Short-to cross the Sea-
To look upon Her like-alive-
But turning back-'twas slow-






I Would Distil A Cup

I would distil a cup,
And bear to all my friends,
Drinking to her no more astir,
By beck, or burn, or moor!






I Would Not Paint—a Picture

I would not paint—a picture—
I'd rather be the One
Its bright impossibility
To dwell—delicious—on—
And wonder how the fingers feel
Whose rare—celestial—stir—
Evokes so sweet a Torment—
Such sumptuous—Despair—
I would not talk, like Cornets—
I'd rather be the One
Raised softly to the Ceilings—
And out, and easy on—
Through Villages of Ether—
Myself endued Balloon
By but a lip of Metal—
The pier to my Pontoon—
Nor would I be a Poet—
It's finer—own the Ear—
Enamored—impotent—content—
The License to revere,
A privilege so awful
What would the Dower be,
Had I the Art to stun myself
With Bolts of Melody!






I Years Had Been From Home,

I years had been from home,
And now, before the door,
I dared not open, lest a face
I never saw before
Stare vacant into mine
And ask my business there.
My business,--just a life I left,
Was such still dwelling there?
I fumbled at my nerve,
I scanned the windows near;
The silence like an ocean rolled,
And broke against my ear.
I laughed a wooden laugh
That I could fear a door,
Who danger and the dead had faced,
But never quaked before.
I fitted to the latch
My hand, with trembling care,
Lest back the awful door should spring,
And leave me standing there.
I moved my fingers off
As cautiously as glass,
And held my ears, and like a thief
Fled gasping from the house.






I’ll Tell You How The Sun Rose

I’ll tell you how the sun rose, 
A ribbon at a time.
The steeples swam in amethyst,
The news like squirrels ran.
The hills untied their bonnets,
The bobolinks begun.
Then I said softly to myself,
"That must have been the sun!"
But how he set, I know not.
There seemed a purple stile.
Which little yellow boys and girls
Were climbing all the while
Till when they reached the other side,
A dominie in gray
Put gently up the evening bars,
And led the flock away.






Ideals Are The Fairly Oil

Ideals are the Fairly Oil
With which we help the Wheel
But when the Vital Axle turns
The Eye rejects the Oil.






If all the griefs I am to have

If all the griefs I am to have
Would only come today,
I am so happy I believe
They'd laugh and run away.
If all the joys I am to have
Would only come today,
They could not be so big as this
That happens to me now.






If Any Sink, Assure That This, Now Standing

If any sink, assure that this, now standing-
Failed like Themselves-and conscious that it rose-
Grew by the Fact, and not the Understanding
How Weakness passed-or Force-arose-
Tell that the Worst, is easy in a Moment-
Dread, but the Whizzing, before the Ball-
When the Ball enters, enters Silence-
Dying-annuls the power to kill.






If Anybody's Friend Be Dead

If anybody's friend be dead
It's sharpest of the theme
The thinking how they walked alive-
At such and such a time-
Their costume, of a Sunday,
Some manner of the Hair-
A prank nobody knew but them
Lost, in the Sepulchre-
How warm, they were, on such a day,
You almost feel the date-
So short way off it seems-
And now-they're Centuries from that-
How pleased they were, at what you said-
You try to touch the smile
And dip your fingers in the frost-
When was it-Can you tell-
You asked the Company to tea-
Acquaintance-just a few-
And chatted close with this Grand Thing
That don't remember you-
Past Bows, and Invitations-
Past Interview, and Vow-
Past what Ourself can estimate-
That-makes the Quick of Woe!






If Blame Be My Side—forfeit Me

If Blame be my side—forfeit Me—
But doom me not to forfeit Thee—
To forfeit Thee? The very name
Is sentence from Belief—and House—






If Ever The Lid Gets Off My Head

If ever the lid gets off my head
And lets the brain away
The fellow will go where he belonged Without a hint from me,
And the world - if the world be looking on Will see how far from home
It is possible for sense to live
The soul there - all the time.






If He Dissolve—then—there Is Nothing

If He dissolve—then—there is nothing—more—
Eclipse—at Midnight—
It was dark—before—
Sunset—at Easter—
Blindness—on the Dawn—
Faint Star of Bethlehem—
Gone down!
Would but some God—inform Him—
Or it be too late!
Say—that the pulse just lisps—
The Chariots wait—
Say—that a little life—for His—
Is leaking—red—
His little Spaniel—tell Him!
Will He heed?






If He Were Living—dare I Ask

If He were living—dare I ask—
And how if He be dead—
And so around the Words I went—
Of meeting them—afraid—
I hinted Changes—Lapse of Time—
The Surfaces of Years—
I touched with Caution—lest they crack—
And show me to my fears—
Reverted to adjoining Lives—
Adroitly turning out
Wherever I suspected Graves—
'Twas prudenter—I thought—
And He—I pushed—with sudden force—
In face of the Suspense—
"Was buried"—"Buried"! "He!"
My Life just holds the Trench—






If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking,

If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain;
If I can ease one life the aching,
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin
Unto his nest again,
I shall not live in vain.






If I Could Bribe Them By A Rose

If I could bribe them by a Rose
I'd bring them every flower that grows
From Amherst to Cashmere!
I would not stop for night, or storm-
Or frost, or death, or anyone-
My business were so dear!
If they would linger for a Bird
My Tambourin were soonest heard
Among the April Woods!
Unwearied, all the summer long,
Only to break in wilder song
When Winter shook the boughs!
What if they hear me!
Who shall say
That such an importunity
May not at last avail?
That, weary of this Beggar's face-
They may not finally say, Yes-
To drive her from the Hall?






If I May Have It, When It's Dead

If I may have it, when it's dead,
I'll be contented-so-
If just as soon as Breath is out
It shall belong to me-
Until they lock it in the Grave,
'Tis Bliss I cannot weigh-
For tho' they lock Thee in the Grave,
Myself-can own the key-
Think of it Lover! I and Thee
Permitted-face to face to be-
After a Life-a Death-We'll say-
For Death was That-
And this-is Thee-
I'll tell Thee All-how Bald it grew-
How Midnight felt, at first-to me-
How all the Clocks stopped in the World-
And Sunshine pinched me-'Twas so cold-
Then how the Grief got sleepy-some-
As if my Soul were deaf and dumb-
Just making signs-across-to Thee-
That this way-thou could'st notice me-
I'll tell you how I tried to keep
A smile, to show you, when this Deep
All Waded-We look back for Play,
At those Old Times-in Calvary,
Forgive me, if the Grave come slow-
For Coveting to look at Thee-
Forgive me, if to stroke thy frost
Outvisions Paradise!











If I Should Cease To Bring A Rose

If I should cease to bring a Rose
Upon a festal day,
'Twill be because beyond the Rose
I have been called away-
If I should cease to take the names
My buds commemorate-
'Twill be because Death's finger
Claps my murmuring lip!






If I Should Die

If I should die,
And you should live-
And time should gurgle on-
And morn should beam-
And noon should burn-
As it has usual done-
If Birds should build as early
And Bees as bustling go-
One might depart at option
From enterprise below!
'Tis sweet to know that stocks will stand
When we with Daisies lie-
That Commerce will continue-
And Trades as briskly fly-
It makes the parting tranquil
And keeps the soul serene-
That gentlemen so sprightly
Conduct the pleasing scene!






If I Shouldn'T Be Alive

If I shouldn't be alive
When the Robins come,
Give the one in Red Cravat,
A Memorial crumb.
If I couldn't thank you,
Being fast asleep,
You will know I'm trying
Why my Granite lip!






If I'M Lost-Now

If I'm lost-now
That I was found-
Shall still my transport be-
That once-on me-those Jasper Gates
Blazed open-suddenly-
That in my awkward-gazing-face-
The Angels-softly peered-
And touched me with their fleeces,
Almost as if they cared-
I'm banished-now-you know it-
How foreign that can be-
You'll know-Sir-when the Savior's face
Turns so-away from you-






If It Had No Pencil

If it had no pencil
Would it try mine-
Worn-now-and dull-sweet,
Writing much to thee.
If it had no word,
Would it make the Daisy,
Most as big as I was,
When it plucked me?






If Nature Smiles - The Mother Must

If Nature smiles - the Mother must
I'm sure, at many a whim
Of Her eccentric Family 
Is She so much to blame?






If Pain For Peace Prepares

If pain for peace prepares
Lo, what "Augustan" years
Our feet await!
If springs from winter rise,
Can the Anemones
Be reckoned up?
If night stands fast-then noon
To gird us for the sun,
What gaze!
When from a thousand skies
On our developed eyes
Noons blaze!






If Recollecting Were Forgetting

If recollecting were forgetting,
Then I remember not.
And if forgetting, recollecting,
How near I had forgot.
And if to miss, were merry,
And to mourn, were gay,
How very blithe the fingers
That gathered this, Today!






If She Had Been The Mistletoe

If she had been the Mistletoe
And I had been the Rose-
How gay upon your table
My velvet life to close-
Since I am of the Druid,
And she is of the dew-
I'll deck Tradition's buttonhole-
And send the Rose to you.






If The Foolish, Call Them "Flowers"

If the foolish, call them "flowers"-
Need the wiser, tell?
If the Savants "Classify" them
It is just as well!
Those who read the "Revelations"
Must not criticize
Those who read the same Edition-
With beclouded Eyes!
Could we stand with that Old "Moses"-
"Canaan" denied-
Scan like him, the stately landscape
On the other side-
Doubtless, we should deem superfluous
Many Sciences,
Not pursued by learned Angels
In scholastic skies!
Low amid that glad Belles lettres
Grant that we may stand,
Stars, amid profound Galaxies-
At that grand "Right hand"!






If This Is "Fading"

If this is "fading"
Oh let me immediately "fade"!
If this is "dying"
Bury me, in such a shroud of red!
If this is "sleep,"
On such a night
How proud to shut the eye!
Good Evening, gentle Fellow men!
Peacock presumes to die!






If Those I Loved Were Lost

If those I loved were lost
The Crier's voice would tell me-
If those I loved were found
The bells of Ghent would ring-
Did those I loved repose
The Daisy would impel me.
Philip-when bewildered
Bore his riddle in!






If What We Could-Were What We Would

If What we could-were what we would-
Criterion-be small-
It is the Ultimate of Talk-
The Impotence to Tell-






If You Were Coming In The Fall,

If you were coming in the fall,
I'd brush the summer by
With half a smile and half a spum,
As housewives do a fly.
If I could see you in a year,
I'd wind the months in balls,
And put them each in separate drawers,
Until their time befalls.
If only centuries delayed,
I'd count them on my hand,
Subtracting till my fingers dropped
Into Van Diemen's land.
If certain, when this life was out,
That yours and mine should be,
I'd toss it yonder like a rind,
And taste eternity.
But now, all ignorant of the length
Of time's uncertain wing,
It goads me, like the goblin bee,
That will not state its sting.






If Your Nerve, Deny You

If your Nerve, deny you-
Go above your Nerve-
He can lean against the Grave,
If he fear to swerve-
That's a steady posture-
Never any bend
Held of those Brass arms-
Best Giant made-
If your Soul seesaw-
Lift the Flesh door-
The Poltroon wants Oxygen-
Nothing more-






I'Ll Clutch—and Clutch

I'll clutch—and clutch—
Next—One—Might be the golden touch—
Could take it—
Diamonds—Wait—
I'm diving—just a little late—
But stars—go slow—for night—
I'll string you—in fine Necklace—
Tiaras—make—of some—
Wear you on Hem—
Loop up a Countess—with you—
Make—a Diadem—and mend my old One—
Count—Hoard—then lose—
And doubt that you are mine—
To have the joy of feeling it—again—
I'll show you at the Court—
Bear you—for Ornament
Where Women breathe—
That every sigh—may lift you
Just as high—as I—
And—when I die—
In meek array—display you—
Still to show—how rich I go—
Lest Skies impeach a wealth so wonderful—
And banish me—






I'Ll Send The Feather From My Hat!

I'll send the feather from my Hat!
Who knows-but at the sight of that
My Sovereign will relent?
As trinket-worn by faded Child-
Confronting eyes long-comforted-
Blisters the Adamant!






I'M

I'm "wife"—I've finished that—
That other state—
I'm Czar—I'm "Woman" now—
It's safer so—
How odd the Girl's life looks
Behind this soft Eclipse—
I think that Earth feels so
To folks in Heaven—now—
This being comfort—then
That other kind—was pain—
But why compare?
I'm "Wife"! Stop there!












I'M Nobody! Who Are You?

I'm nobody! Who are you?
Are you nobody, too?
Then there's a pair of us -- don't tell!
They'd banish -- you know!
How dreary to be somebody!
How public like a frog
To tell one's name the livelong day
To an admiring bog!









I'M Sorry For The Dead—today

I'm sorry for the Dead—Today—
It's such congenial times
Old Neighbors have at fences—
It's time o' year for Hay.
And Broad—Sunburned Acquaintance
Discourse between the Toil—
And laugh, a homely species
That makes the Fences smile—
It seems so straight to lie away
From all of the noise of Fields—
The Busy Carts—the fragrant Cocks—
The Mower's Metre—Steals—
A Trouble lest they're homesick—
Those Farmers—and their Wives—
Set separate from the Farming—
And all the Neighbors' lives—
A Wonder if the Sepulchre
Don't feel a lonesome way—
When Men—and Boys—and Carts—and June,
Go down the Fields to "Hay"—






I'M The Little

I'm the little "Heart's Ease"!
I don't care for pouting skies!
If the Butterfly delay
Can I, therefore, stay away?
If the Coward Bumble Bee
In his chimney corner stay,
I, must resoluter be!
Who'll apologize for me?
Dear, Old fashioned, little flower!
Eden is old fashioned, too!
Birds are antiquated fellows!
Heaven does not change her blue.
Nor will I, the little Heart's Ease—
Ever be induced to do!






I'M The Little "Heart's Ease"

I'm the little "Heart's Ease"!
I don't care for pouting skies!
If the Butterfly delay
Can I, therefore, stay away?
If the Coward Bumble Bee
In his chimney corner stay,
I, must resoluter be!
Who'll apologize for me?
Dear, Old fashioned, little flower!
Eden is old fashioned, too!
Birds are antiquated fellows!
Heaven does not change her blue.
Nor will I, the little Heart's Ease-
Ever be induced to do!






Image of Light, Adieu

Image of Light, Adieu 
Thanks for the interview 
So long - so short 
Preceptor of the whole 
Coeval Cardinal 
Impart - Depart 





Immured in Heaven!

Immured in Heaven!
What a Cell!
Let every Bondage be,
Thou sweetest of the Universe,
Like that which ravished thee!






Impossibility, Like Wine

Impossibility, like Wine
Exhilarates the Man
Who tastes it; Possibility
Is flavorless-Combine
A Chance's faintest Tincture
And in the former Dram
Enchantment makes ingredient
As certainly as Doom-






In Ebon Box, When Years Have Flown

In Ebon Box, when years have flown
To reverently peer,
Wiping away the velvet dust
Summers have sprinkled there!
To hold a letter to the light-
Grown Tawny now, with time-
To con the faded syllables
That quickened us like Wine!
Perhaps a Flower's shrivelled check
Among its stores to find-
Plucked far away, some morning-
By gallant-mouldering hand!
A curl, perhaps, from foreheads
Our Constancy forgot-
Perhaps, an Antique trinket-
In vanished fashions set!
And then to lay them quiet back-
And go about its care-
As if the little Ebon Box
Were none of our affair!






In Falling Timbers Buried

In falling Timbers buried-
There breathed a Man-
Outside-the spades-were plying-
The Lungs-within-
Could He-know-they sought Him-
Could They-know-He breathed-
Horrid Sand Partition-
Neither-could be heard-
Never slacked the Diggers-
But when Spades had done-
Oh, Reward of Anguish,
It was dying-Then-
Many Things-are fruitless-
'Tis a Baffling Earth-
But there is no Gratitude
Like the Grace-of Death-






In Lands I Never Saw—they Say

In lands I never saw—they say
Immortal Alps look down—
Whose Bonnets touch the firmament—
Whose Sandals touch the town—
Meek at whose everlasting feet
A Myriad Daisy play—
Which, Sir, are you and which am I
Upon an August day?






In Rags Mysterious As These

In rags mysterious as these
The shining Courtiers go-
Veiling the purple, and the plumes-
Veiling the ermine so.
Smiling, as they request an alms-
At some imposing door!
Smiling when we walk barefoot
Upon their golden floor!






In Snow Thou Comest
In snow thou comest 
Thou shalt go with the resuming ground,
The sweet derision of the crow,
And Glee's advancing sound.
In fear thou comest 
Thou shalt go at such a gait of joy
That man anew embark to live
Upon the depth of thee.






In This Short Life

That only lasts an hour
How much — how little — is
Within our power






In Winter In My Room

In Winter in my Room
I came upon a Worm-
Pink, lank and warm-
But as he was a worm
And worms presume
Not quite with him at home-
Secured him by a string
To something neighboring
And went along.
A Trifle afterward
A thing occurred
I'd not believe it if I heard
But state with creeping blood-
A snake with mottles rare
Surveyed my chamber floor
In feature as the worm before
But ringed with power-
The very string with which
I tied him-too
When he was mean and new
That string was there-
I shrank-"How fair you are"!
Propitiation's claw-
"Afraid," he hissed
"Of me"?
"No cordiality"-
He fathomed me-
Then to a Rhythm Slim
Secreted in his Form
As Patterns swim
Projected him.
That time I flew
Both eyes his way
Lest he pursue
Nor ever ceased to run
Till in a distant Town
Towns on from mine
I set me down
This was a dream.






Inconceivably Solemn!

Inconceivably solemn!
Things go gay
Pierce-by the very Press
Of Imagery-
Their far Parades-order on the eye
With a mute Pomp-
A pleading Pageantry-
Flags, are a brave sight-
But no true Eye
Ever went by One-
Steadily-
Music's triumphant-
But the fine Ear
Winces with delight
Are Drums too near-






Is Bliss Then, Such Abyss

Is Bliss then, such Abyss,
I must not put my foot amiss
For fear I spoil my shoe?
I'd rather suit my foot
Than save my Boot-
For yet to buy another Pair
Is possible,
At any store-
But Bliss, is sold just once.
The Patent lost
None buy it any more-
Say, Foot, decide the point-
The Lady cross, or not?
Verdict for Boot!






Is It Dead—find It

Is it dead—Find it—
Out of sound—Out of sight—
"Happy"? Which is wiser—
You, or the Wind?
"Conscious"? Won't you ask that—
Of the low Ground?
"Homesick"? Many met it—
Even through them—This
Cannot testify—
Themself—as dumb—






Is It Too Late To Touch You, Dear?
Is it too late to touch you, Dear?
We this moment knew Love Marine and Love terrene 
Love celestial too 





Is It True, Dear Sue?

Is it true, dear Sue?
Are there two?
I shouldn't like to come
For fear of joggling Him!
If I could shut him up
In a Coffee Cup,
Or tie him to a pin
Till I got in-
Or make him fast
To "Toby's" fist-
Hist! Whist! I'd come!






It Always Felt To Me—a Wrong

It always felt to me—a wrong
To that Old Moses—done—
To let him see—the Canaan—
Without the entering—
And tho' in soberer moments—
No Moses there can be
I'm satisfied—the Romance
In point of injury—
Surpasses sharper stated—
Of Stephen—or of Paul—
For these—were only put to death—
While God's adroiter will
On Moses—seemed to fasten
With tantalizing Play
As Boy—should deal with lesser Boy—
To prove ability.
The fault—was doubtless Israel's—
Myself—had banned the Tribes—
And ushered Grand Old Moses
In Pentateuchal Robes
Upon the Broad Possession
'Twas little—But titled Him—to see—
Old Man on Nebo! Late as this—
My justice bleeds—for Thee!






It Bloomed And Dropt, A Single Noon

It bloomed and dropt, a Single Noon-
The Flower-distinct and Red-
I, passing, thought another Noon
Another in its stead
Will equal glow, and thought no More
But came another Day
To find the Species disappeared-
The Same Locality-
The Sun in place-no other fraud
On Nature's perfect Sum-
Had I but lingered Yesterday-
Was my retrieveless blame-
Much Flowers of this and further Zones
Have perished in my Hands
For seeking its Resemblance-
But unapproached it stands-
The single Flower of the Earth
That I, in passing by
Unconscious was-Great Nature's Face
Passed infinite by Me-






It Can'T Be "Summer"!

It can't be "Summer"!
That-got through!
It's early-yet-for "Spring"!
There's that long town of White-to cross-
Before the Blackbirds sing!
It can't be "Dying"!
It's too Rouge-
The Dead shall go in White-
So Sunset shuts my question down
With Cuffs of Chrysolite!






It Ceased To Hurt Me, Though So Slow

It ceased to hurt me, though so slow
I could not feel the Anguish go-
But only knew by looking back-
That something-had benumbed the Track-
Nor when it altered, I could say,
For I had worn it, every day,
As constant as the Childish frock-
I hung upon the Peg, at night.
But not the Grief-that nestled close
As needles-ladies softly press
To Cushions Cheeks-
To keep their place-
Nor what consoled it, I could trace-
Except, whereas 'twas Wilderness-
It's better-almost Peace-






It Did Not Surprise Me

It did not surprise me-
So I said-or thought-
She will stir her pinions
And the nest forgot,
Traverse broader forests-
Build in gayer boughs,
Breathe in Ear more modern
God's old fashioned vows-
This was but a Birdling-
What and if it be
One within my bosom
Had departed me?
This was but a story-
What and if indeed
There were just such coffin
In the heart instead?






It Don'T Sound So Terrible—quite—as It Did

It don't sound so terrible—quite—as it did—
I run it over—"Dead", Brain, "Dead."
Put it in Latin—left of my school—
Seems it don't shriek so—under rule.
Turn it, a little—full in the face
A Trouble looks bitterest—
Shift it—just—
Say "When Tomorrow comes this way—
I shall have waded down one Day."
I suppose it will interrupt me some
Till I get accustomed—but then the Tomb
Like other new Things—shows largest—then—
And smaller, by Habit—
It's shrewder then
Put the Thought in advance—a Year—
How like "a fit"—then—
Murder—wear!






It Dropped So Low -- In My Regard 
It dropped so low -- in my Regard -
I heard it hit the Ground -
And go to pieces on the Stones
At bottom of my Mind -
Yet blamed the Fate that flung it -- less
Than I denounced Myself,
For entertaining Plated Wares
Upon My Silver Shelf -





It Dropped So Low In My Regard

It dropped so low in my regard
I heard it hit the ground,
And go to pieces on the stones
At bottom of my mind;
Yet blamed the fate that fractured, less
Than I reviled myself
For entertaining plated wares
Upon my silver shelf.






It Feels A Shame To Be Alive

It feels a shame to be Alive-
When Men so brave-are dead-
One envies the Distinguished Dust-
Permitted-such a Head-
The Stone-that tells defending Whom
This Spartan put away
What little of Him we-possessed
In Pawn for Liberty-
The price is great-Sublimely paid-
Do we deserve-a Thing-
That lives-like Dollars-must be piled
Before we may obtain?
Are we that wait-sufficient worth-
That such Enormous Pearl
As life-dissolved be-for Us-
In Battle's-horrid Bowl?
It may be-a Renown to live-
I think the Man who die-
Those unsustained-Saviors-
Present Divinity-






It Is A Lonesome Glee

It is a lonesome Glee-
Yet sanctifies the Mind-
With fair association-
Afar upon the Wind
A Bird to overhear
Delight without a Cause-
Arrestless as invisible-
A matter of the Skies.






It Is An Honorable Thought,

It is an honorable thought,
And makes one lift one's hat,
As one encountered gentlefolk
Upon a daily street,
That we've immortal place,
Though pyramids decay,
And kingdoms, like the orchard,
Flit russetly away.






It Is Easy To Work When The Soul Is At Play

It is easy to work when the soul is at play-
But when the soul is in pain-
The hearing him put his playthings up
Makes work difficult-then-
It is simple, to ache in the Bone, or the Rind-
But Gimlets-among the nerve-
Mangle daintier-terribler-
Like a Panter in the Glove-






It Knew No Lapse, Nor Diminuation

It knew no lapse, nor Diminuation-
But large-serene-
Burned on-until through Dissolution-
It failed from Men-
I could not deem these Planetary forces
Annulled-
But suffered an Exchange of Territory-
Or World-






It Knew No Medicine

It knew no Medicine-
It was not Sickness-then-
Nor any need of Surgery-
And therefore-'twas not Pain-
It moved away the Cheeks-
A Dimple at a time-
And left the Profile-plainer-
And in the place of Bloom
It left the little Tint
That never had a Name-
You've seen it on a Cast's face-
Was Paradise-to blame-
If momently ajar-
Temerity-drew near-
And sickened-ever afterward
For Somewhat that it saw?






It Makes No Difference Abroad

It makes no difference abroad-
The Seasons-fit-the same-
The Mornings blossom into Noons-
And split their Pods of Flame-
Wild flowers-kindle in the Woods-
The Brooks slam-all the Day-
No Black bird bates his Banjo-
For passing Calvary-
Auto da Fe-and Judgment-
Are nothing to the Bee-
His separation from His Rose-
To Him-sums Misery-






It Might Be Lonelier

It might be lonelier
Without the Loneliness-
I'm so accustomed to my Fate-
Perhaps the Other-Peace-
Would interrupt the Dark-
And crowd the little Room-
Too scant-by Cubits-to contain
The Sacrament-of Him-
I am not used to Hope-
It might intrude upon-
Its sweet parade-blaspheme the place-
Ordained to Suffering-
It might be easier
To fail-with Land in Sight-
Than gain-My Blue Peninsula-
To perish-of Delight-






It Sifts From Leaden Sieves

It sifts from Leaden Sieves-
It powders all the Wood.
It fills with Alabaster Wool
The Wrinkles of the Road-
It makes an Even Face
Of Mountain, and of Plain-
Unbroken Forehead from the East
Unto the East again-
It reaches to the Fence-
It wraps it Rail by Rail
Till it is lost in Fleeces-
It deals Celestial Vail
To Stump, and Stack-and Stem-
A Summer's empty Room-
Acres of Joints, where Harvests were,
Recordless, but for them-It Ruffles Wrists of Posts
As Ankles of a Queen-
Then stills its Artisans-like Ghosts-
Denying they have been-






It sounded as if the Streets were running
It sounded as if the Streets were running
And then - the Streets stood still 
Eclipse - was all we could see at the Window
And Awe - was all we could feel.
By and by - the boldest stole out of his Covert
To see if Time was there 
Nature was in an Opal Apron,
Mixing fresher Air.






It stole along so stealthy

It stole along so stealthy
Suspicion it was done
Was dim as to the wealthy
Beginning not to own 





It Struck Me Every Day

It struck me every day
The lightning was as new
As if the cloud that instant slit
And let the fire through.
It burned me in the night,
It blistered in my dream;
It sickened fresh upon my sight
With every morning's beam.
I thought that storm was brief,-
The maddest, quickest by;
But Nature lost the date of this,
And left it in the sky.






It Tossed—and Tossed

It tossed—and tossed—
A little Brig I knew—o'ertook by Blast—
It spun—and spun—
And groped delirious, for Morn—
It slipped—and slipped—
As One that drunken—stept—
Its white foot tripped—
Then dropped from sight—
Ah, Brig—Good Night
To Crew and You—
The Ocean's Heart too smooth—too Blue—
To break for You—






It Troubled Me As Once I Was

It troubled me as once I was-
For I was once a Child-
Concluding how an Atom-fell-
And yet the Heavens-held-
The Heavens weighed the most-by far-
Yet Blue-and solid-stood-
Without a Bolt-that I could prove-
Would Giants-understand?
Life set me larger-problems-
Some I shall keep-to solve
Till Algebra is easier-
Or simpler proved-above-
Then-too-be comprehended-
What sorer-puzzled me-
Why Heaven did not break away-
And tumble-Blue-on me-






It Was A Grave, Yet Bore No Stone

It was a Grave, yet bore no Stone
Enclosed 'twas not of Rail
A Consciousness its Acre, and
It held a Human Soul.
Entombed by whom, for what offence
If Home or Foreign born-
Had I the curiosity
'Twere not appeased of men
Till Resurrection, I must guess
Denied the small desire
A Rose upon its Ridge to sow
Or take away a Briar.






It Was Given To Me By The Gods

It was given to me by the Gods-
When I was a little Girl-
They given us Presents most-you know-
When we are new-and small.
I kept it in my Hand-
I never put it down-
I did not dare to eat-or sleep-
For fear it would be gone-
I heard such words as "Rich"-
When hurrying to school-
From lips at Corners of the Streets-
And wrestled with a smile.
Rich! 'Twas Myself-was rich-
To take the name of Gold-
And Gold to own-in solid Bars-
The Difference-made me bold-






It Was Not Death, For I Stood Up,

It was not death, for I stood up,
And all the dead lie down;
It was not night, for all the bells
Put out their tongues, for noon.
It was not frost, for on my flesh
I felt siroccos crawl,-Nor fire, for just my marble feet
Could keep a chancel cool.
And yet it tasted like them all;
The figures I have seen
Set orderly, for burial,
Reminded me of mine,
As if my life were shaven
And fitted to a frame,
And could not breathe without a key;
And 't was like midnight, some,
When everything that ticked has stopped,
And space stares, all around,
Or grisly frosts, first autumn morns,
Repeal the beating ground.
But most like chaos,--stopless, cool,-Without a chance or spar,-Or even a report of land
To justify despair.






It Was Too Late For Man

It was too late for Man-
But early, yet, for God-
Creation-impotent to help-
But Prayer-remained-Our Side-
How excellent the Heaven-
When Earth-cannot be had-
How hospitable-then-the face
Of our Old Neighbor-God-






It Will Be Summer—eventually

It will be Summer—eventually.
Ladies—with parasols—
Sauntering Gentlemen—with Canes—
And little Girls—with Dolls—
Will tint the pallid landscape—
As 'twere a bright Bouquet—
Thro' drifted deep, in Parian—
The Village lies—today—
The Lilacs—bending many a year—
Will sway with purple load—
The Bees—will not despise the tune—
Their Forefathers—have hummed—
The Wild Rose—redden in the Bog—
The Aster—on the Hill
Her everlasting fashion—set—
And Covenant Gentians—frill—
Till Summer folds her miracle—
As Women—do—their Gown—
Of Priests—adjust the Symbols—
When Sacrament—is done—






It Would Have Starved A Gnat

It would have starved a Gnat-
To live so small as I-
And yet I was a living Child-
With Food's necessity
Upon me-like a Claw-
I could no more remove
Than I could coax a Leech away-
Or make a Dragon-move-
Not like the Gnat-had I-
The privilege to fly
And seek a Dinner for myself-
How mightier He-than I-
Nor like Himself-the Art
Upon the Window Pane
To gad my little Being out-
And not begin-again-






It Would Never Be Common—more—i Said

It would never be Common—more—I said—
Difference—had begun—
Many a bitterness—had been—
But that old sort—was done—
Or—if it sometime—showed—as 'twill—
Upon the Downiest—Morn—
Such bliss—had I—for all the years—
'Twould give an Easier—pain—
I'd so much joy—I told it—Red—
Upon my simple Cheek—
I felt it publish—in my Eye—
'Twas needless—any speak—
I walked—as wings—my body bore—
The feet—I former used—
Unnecessary—now to me—
As boots—would be—to Birds—
I put my pleasure all abroad—
I dealth a word of Gold
To every Creature—that I met—
And Dowered—all the World—
When—suddenly—my Riches shrank—
A Goblin—drank my Dew—
My Palaces—dropped tenantless—
Myself—was beggared—too—
I clutched at sounds—
I groped at shapes—
I touched the tops of Films—
I felt the Wilderness roll back
Along my Golden lines—
The Sackcloth—hangs upon the nail—





The Frock I used to wear—
But where my moment of Brocade—
My—drop—of India?






It's All I Have To Bring Today

It's all I have to bring today-
This, and my heart beside-
This, and my heart, and all the fields-
And all the meadows wide-
Be sure you count-should I forget
Some one the sum could tell-
This, and my heart, and all the Bees
Which in the Clover dwell.






It's Coming—the Postponeless Creature

It's coming—the postponeless Creature—
It gains the Block—and now—it gains the Door—
Chooses its latch, from all the other fastenings—
Enters—with a "You know Me—Sir"?
Simple Salute—and certain Recognition—
Bold—were it Enemy—Brief—were it friend—
Dresses each House in Crape, and Icicle—
And carries one—out of it—to God—






It's Easy To Invent A Life

It's easy to invent a Life-
God does it-every Day-
Creation-but the Gambol
Of His Authority-
It's easy to efface it-
The thrifty Deity
Could scarce afford Eternity
To Spontaneity-
The Perished Patterns murmur-
But His Perturbless Plan
Proceed-inserting Here-a Sun-
There-leaving out a Man-






It's Like The Light, 
It's like the light, 
A fashionless delight
It's like the bee, 
A dateless melody.
It's like the woods,
Private like breeze,
Phraseless, yet it stirs
The proudest trees.
It's like the morning, 
Best when it's done, 
The everlasting clocks
Chime noon.






It's Such A Little Thing To Weep

It's such a little thing to weep-
So short a thing to sigh-
And yet-by Trades-the size of these
We men and women die!






It's Thoughts—and Just One Heart

It's thoughts—and just One Heart—
And Old Sunshine—about—
Make frugal—Ones—Content—
And two or three—for Company—
Upon a Holiday—
Crowded—as Sacrament—
Books—when the Unit—
Spare the Tenant—long eno'—
A Picture—if it Care—
Itself—a Gallery too rare—
For needing more—
Flowers—to keep the Eyes—from going awkward—
When it snows—
A Bird—if they—prefer—
Though Winter fire—sing clear as Plover—
To our—ear—
A Landscape—not so great
To suffocate the Eye—
A Hill—perhaps—
Perhaps—the profile of a Mill
Turned by the Wind—
Tho' such—are luxuries—
It's thoughts—and just two Heart—
And Heaven—about—
At least—a Counterfeit—
We would not have Correct—
And Immortality—can be almost—
Not quite—Content—






I'Ve Heard An Organ Talk, Sometimes

I've heard an Organ talk, sometimes
In a Cathedral Aisle,
And understood no word it said-
Yet held my breath, the while-
And risen up-and gone away,
A more Berdardine Girl-
Yet-know not what was done to me
In that old Chapel Aisle.






I'Ve Known A Heaven, Like A Tent

I've known a Heaven, like a Tent-
To wrap its shining Yards-
Pluck up its stakes, and disappear-
Without the sound of Boards
Or Rip of Nail-Or Carpenter-
But just the miles of Stare-
That signalize a Show's Retreat-
In North America-
No Trace-no Figment of the Thing
That dazzled, Yesterday,
No Ring-no Marvel-
Men, and Feats-
Dissolved as utterly-
As Bird's far Navigation
Discloses just a Hue-
A plash of Oars, a Gaiety-
Then swallowed up, of View.






I'Ve None To Tell Me To But Thee

I've none to tell me to but Thee
So when Thou failest, nobody.
It was a little tie-
It just held Two, nor those it held
Since Somewhere thy sweet Face has spilled
Beyond my Boundary-
If things were opposite-and Me
And Me it were-that ebbed from Thee
On some unanswering Shore-
Would'st Thou seek so-just say
That I the Answer may pursue
Unto the lips it eddied through-
So-overtaking Thee-






I'Ve Nothing Else—to Bring, You Know

I've nothing else—to bring, You know—
So I keep bringing These—
Just as the Night keeps fetching Stars
To our familiar eyes—
Maybe, we shouldn't mind them—
Unless they didn't come—
Then—maybe, it would puzzle us
To find our way Home—






I'Ve Seen A Dying Eye

I've seen a Dying Eye
Run round and round a Room-
In search of Something-as it seemed-
Then Cloudier become-
And then-obscure with Fog-
And then-be soldered down
Without disclosing what it be
'Twere blessed to have seen-






Jesus! Thy Crucifix

Jesus! thy Crucifix
Enable thee to guess
The smaller size!
Jesus! thy second face
Mind thee in Paradise
Of ours!






Joy To Have Merited The Pain

Joy to have merited the Pain-
To merit the Release-
Joy to have perished every step-
To Compass Paradise-
Pardon-to look upon thy face-
With these old fashioned Eyes-
Better than new-could be-for that-
Though bought in Paradise-
Because they looked on thee before-
And thou hast looked on them-
Prove Me-My Hazel Witnesses
The features are the same-
So fleet thou wert, when present-
So infinite-when gone-
An Orient's Apparition-
Remanded of the Morn-
The Height I recollect-
'Twas even with the Hills-
The Depth upon my Soul was notched-
As Floods-on Whites of Wheels-
To Haunt-till Time have dropped
His last Decade away,
And Haunting actualize-to last
At least-Eternity-






Judgment is justest

Judgment is justest
When the Judged,
His action laid away,
Divested is of every Disk
But his sincerity.
Honor is then the safest hue
In a posthumous Sun Not any color will endure
That scrutiny can burn.






Just As He Spoke It From His Hands

Just as He spoke it from his Hands
This Edifice remain-
A Turret more, a Turret less
Dishonor his Design-
According as his skill prefer
It perish, or endure-
Content, soe'er, it ornament
His absent character.






Just Lost, When I Was Saved!

Just lost, when I was saved!
Just felt the world go by!
Just girt me for the onset with Eternity,
When breath blew back,
And on the other side
I heard recede the disappointed tide!
Therefore, as One returned, I feel
Odd secrets of the line to tell!
Some Sailor, skirting foreign shores-
Some pale Reporter, from the awful doors
Before the Seal!
Next time, to stay!
Next time, the things to see
By Ear unheard,
Unscrutinized by Eye-
Next time, to tarry,
While the Ages steal-
Slow tramp the Centuries,
And the Cycles wheel!






Kill Your Balm—and Its Odors Bless You

Kill your Balm—and its Odors bless you—
Bare your Jessamine—to the storm—
And she will fling her maddest perfume—
Haply—your Summer night to Charm—
Stab the Bird—that built in your bosom—
Oh, could you catch her last Refrain—
Bubble! "forgive"—"Some better"—Bubble!
"Carol for Him—when I am gone"!






Knows How To Forget!

Knows how to forget!
But could It teach it?
Easiest of Arts, they say
When one learn how
Dull Hearts have died
In the Acquisition
Sacrificed for Science
Is common, though, now-
I went to School
But was not wiser
Globe did not teach it
Nor Logarithm Show
"How to forget"!
Say-some-Philosopher!
Ah, to be erudite
Enough to know!
Is it in a Book?
So, I could buy it-
Is it like a Planet?
Telescopes would know-
If it be invention
It must have a Patent.
Rabbi of the Wise Book
Don't you know?






Least Bee That Brew

Least Bee that brew-
A Honey's Weight
Content Her smallest fraction help
The Amber Quantity-






Least Rivers—docile To Some Sea

Least Rivers—docile to some sea.
My Caspian—thee.






Let me not mar that perfect Dream

Let me not mar that perfect Dream
By an Auroral stain
But so adjust my daily Night
That it will come again.
Not when we know, the Power accosts The Garment of Surprise
Was all our timid Mother wore
At Home - in Paradise.






Let Us Play Yesterday

Let Us play Yesterday-
I-the Girl at school-
You-and Eternity-the
Untold Tale-
Easing my famine
At my Lexicon-
Logarithm-had I-for Drink-
'Twas a dry Wine-
Somewhat different-must be-
Dreams tint the Sleep-
Cunning Reds of Morning
Make the Blind-leap-
Still at the Egg-life-
Chafing the Shell-
When you troubled the Ellipse-
And the Bird fell-
Manacles be dim-they say-
To the new Free-
Liberty-Commoner-
Never could-to me-
'Twas my last gratitude
When I slept-at night-
'Twas the first Miracle
Let in-with Light-
Can the Lark resume the Shell-
Easier-for the Sky-
Wouldn't Bonds hurt more
Than Yesterday?
Wouldn't Dungeons sorer frate
On the Man-free-Just long enough to taste-
Then-doomed new-
God of the Manacle
As of the Free-
Take not my Liberty
Away from Me-






Life—is What We Make Of It

Life—is what we make of it—
Death—we do not know—
Christ's acquaintance with Him
Justify Him—though—
He—would trust no stranger—
Other—could betray—
Just His own endorsement—
That—sufficeth Me—
All the other Distance
He hath traversed first—
No New Mile remaineth—
Far as Paradise—
His sure foot preceding—
Tender Pioneer—
Base must be the Coward
Dare not venture—now—






Light Is Sufficient To Itself

Light is sufficient to itself-
If Others want to see
It can be had on Window Panes
Some Hours in the Day.
But not for Compensation-
It holds as large a Glow
To Squirrel in the Himmaleh
Precisely, as to you.






Lightly Stepped A Yellow Star

Lightly stepped a yellow star
To its lofty place 
Loosed the Moon her silver hat
From her lustral Face 
All of Evening softly lit
As an Astral Hall 
Father, I observed to Heaven,
You are punctual.






Like Brooms of Steel

Like Brooms of Steel
The Snow and Wind
Had swept the Winter Street 
The House was hooked
The Sun sent out
Faint Deputies of Heat 
Where rode the Bird
The Silence tied
His ample - plodding Steed
The Apple in the Cellar snug
Was all the one that played.






Like Eyes That Looked On Wastes

Like eyes that looked on Wastes-
Incredulous of Ought
But Blank-and steady Wilderness-
Diversified by Night-
Just Infinites of Nought-
As far as it could see-
So looked the face I looked upon-
So looked itself-on Me-
I offered it no Help-
Because the Cause was Mine-
The Misery a Compact
As hopeless-as divine-
Neither-would be absolved-
Neither would be a Queen
Without the Other-Therefore-
We perish-tho' We reign-






Like Flowers, That Heard The News Of Dews

Like Flowers, that heard the news of Dews,
But never deemed the dripping prize
Awaited their-low Brows-
Or Bees-that thought the Summer's name
Some rumor of Delirium,
No Summer-could-for Them-
Or Arctic Creatures, dimly stirred-
By Tropic Hint-some Travelled Bird
Imported to the Wood-
Or Wind's bright signal to the Ear-
Making that homely, and severe,
Contented, known, before-
The Heaven-unexpected come,
To Lives that thought the Worshipping
A too presumptuous Psalm-






Like Her The Saints Retire

Like her the Saints retire,
In their Chapeaux of fire,
Martial as she!
Like her the Evenings steal
Purple and Cochineal
After the Day!
"Departed"-both-they say!
i.e. gathered away,
Not found,
Argues the Aster still-
Reasons the Daffodil
Profound!






Like Mighty Foot Lights—burned The Red

Like Mighty Foot Lights—burned the Red
At Bases of the Trees—
The far Theatricals of Day
Exhibiting—to These—
'Twas Universe—that did applaud—
While Chiefest—of the Crowd—
Enabled by his Royal Dress—
Myself distinguished God—






Like Some Old Fashioned Miracle

Like Some Old fashioned Miracle
When Summertime is done-
Seems Summer's Recollection
And the Affairs of June
As infinite Tradition
As Cinderella's Bays-
Or Little John-of Lincoln Green-
Or Blue Beard's Galleries-
Her Bees have a fictitious Hum-
Her Blossoms, like a Dream-
Elate us-till we almost weep-
So plausible-they seem-
Her Memories like Strains-Review-
When Orchestra is dumb-
The Violin in Baize replaced-
And Ear-and Heaven-numb-






Like Trains Of Cars On Tracks Of Plush

Like trains of cars on tracks of plush
I hear the level bee:
A jar across the flowers goes,
Their velvet masonry
Withstands until the sweet assault
Their chivalry consumes,
While he, victorious, tilts away
To vanquish other blooms.
His feet are shod with gauze,
His helmet is of gold;
His breast, a single onyx
With chrysoprase, inlaid.
His labor is a chant,
His idleness a tune;
Oh, for a bee's experience
Of clovers and of noon!
Lives He In Any Other World
Lives he in any other world
My faith cannot reply
Before it was imperative
'Twas all distinct to me 





Longing is like the Seed

Longing is like the Seed
That wrestles in the Ground,
Believing if it intercede
It shall at length be found.
The Hour, and the Clime 
Each Circumstance unknown,
What Constancy must be achieved
Before it see the Sun!






Love Reckons By Itself—alone

Love reckons by itself—alone—
"As large as I"—relate the Sun
To One who never felt it blaze—
Itself is all the like it has—






Love-Is Anterior To Life

Love-is anterior to Life-
Posterior-to Death-
Initial of Creation, and
The Exponent of Earth-






Love-Thou Art High

Love-thou art high-
I cannot climb thee-
But, were it Two-
Who know but we-
Taking turns-at the Chimborazo-
Ducal-at last-stand up by thee-
Love-thou are deep-
I cannot cross thee-
But, were there Two
Instead of One-
Rower, and Yacht-some sovereign Summer-
Who knows-but we'd reach the Sun?
Love-thou are Veiled-
A few-behold thee-
Smile-and alter-and prattle-and die-
Bliss-were an Oddity-without thee-
Nicknamed by God-
Eternity-






Love—is Anterior To Life

Love—is anterior to Life—
Posterior—to Death—
Initial of Creation, and
The Exponent of Earth—






Love—is That Later Thing Than Death

Love—is that later Thing than Death—
More previous—than Life—
Confirms it at its entrance—And
Usurps it—of itself—
Tastes Death—the first—to hand the sting
The Second—to its friend—
Disarms the little interval—
Deposits Him with God—
Then hovers—an inferior Guard—
Lest this Beloved Charge
Need—once in an Eternity—
A smaller than the Large—






Love—thou Art High

Love—thou art high—
I cannot climb thee—
But, were it Two—
Who know but we—
Taking turns—at the Chimborazo—
Ducal—at last—stand up by thee—
Love—thou are deep—
I cannot cross thee—
But, were there Two
Instead of One—
Rower, and Yacht—some sovereign Summer—
Who knows—but we'd reach the Sun?
Love—thou are Veiled—
A few—behold thee—
Smile—and alter—and prattle—and die—
Bliss—were an Oddity—without thee—
Nicknamed by God—
Eternity—






Low At My Problem Bending

Low at my problem bending,
Another problem comes-
Larger than mine-Serener-
Involving statelier sums.
I check my busy pencil,
My figures file away.
Wherefore, my baffled fingers
They perplexity?






Luck is not chance

Luck is not chance
It's Toil
Fortune's expensive smile
Is earned
The Father of the Mine
Is that old-fashioned Coin
We spurned






Make Me A Picture Of The Sun

Make me a picture of the sun-
So I can hang it in my room-
And make believe I'm getting warm
When others call it "Day"!
Draw me a Robin-on a stem-
So I am hearing him, I'll dream,
And when the Orchards stop their tune-
Put my pretense-away-
Say if it's really-warm at noon-
Whether it's Buttercups-that "skim"-
Or Butterflies-that "bloom"?
Then-skip-the frost-upon the lea-
And skip the Russet-on the tree-
Let's play those-never come!






Mama Never Forgets Her Birds

Mama never forgets her birds,
Though in another tree-
She looks down just as often
And just as tenderly
As when her little mortal nest
With cunning care she wove-
If either of her "sparrows fall,"
She "notices," above.






Many A Phrase Has The English Language

Many a phrase has the English language-
I have heard but one-
Low as the laughter of the Cricket,
Loud, as the Thunder's Tongue-
Murmuring, like old Caspian Choirs,
When the Tide's a' lull-
Saying itself in new infection-
Like a Whippoorwill-
Breaking in bright Orthography
On my simple sleep-
Thundering its Prospective-
Till I stir, and weep-
Not for the Sorrow, done me-
But the push of Joy-
Say it again, Saxton!
Hush-Only to me!






Many Cross The Rhine

Many cross the Rhine
In this cup of mine.
Sip old Frankfort air
From my brown Cigar.






March is the Month of Expectation

March is the Month of Expectation.
The things we do not know 
The Persons of prognostication
Are coming now 
We try to show becoming firmness 
But pompous Joy
Betrays us, as his first Betrothal
Betrays a Boy.






May-Flower

Pink, small, and punctual,
Aromatic, low,
Covert in April,
Candid in May,
Dear to the moss,
Known by the knoll,
Next to the robin
In every human soul.
Bold little beauty,
Bedecked with thee,
Nature forswears
Antiquity.






Me From Myself—to Banish

Me from Myself—to banish—
Had I Art—
Impregnable my Fortress
Unto All Heart—
But since Myself—assault Me—
How have I peace
Except by subjugating
Consciousness?
And since We're mutual Monarch
How this be
Except by Abdication—
Me—of Me?






Me Prove It Now—whoever Doubt

Me prove it now—Whoever doubt
Me stop to prove it—now—
Make haste—the Scruple! Death be scant
For Opportunity—
The River reaches to my feet—
As yet—My Heart be dry—
Oh Lover—Life could not convince—
Might Death—enable Thee—
The River reaches to My Breast—
Still—still—My Hands above
Proclaim with their remaining Might—
Dost recognize the Love?
The River reaches to my Mouth—
Remember—when the Sea
Swept by my searching eyes—the last—
Themselves were quick—with Thee!






Me! Come! My Dazzled Face

Me! Come! My dazzled face
In such a shining place!
Me! Hear! My foreign ear
The sounds of welcome near!
The saints shall meet
Our bashful feet.
My holiday shall be
That they remember me;
My paradise, the fame
That they pronounce my name.






Me, Change! Me, Alter!

Me, change! Me, alter!
Then I will, when on the Everlasting Hill
A Smaller Purple grows-
At sunset, or a lesser glow
Flickers upon Cordillera-
At Day's superior close!






Midsummer, Was It, When They Died

Midsummer, was it, when They died-
A full, and perfect time-
The Summer closed upon itself
In Consummated Bloom-
The Corn, her furthest kernel filled
Before the coming Flail-
When These-leaned unto Perfectness-
Through Haze of Burial-






Mine enemy is growing old

MINE enemy is growing old,
I have at last revenge.
The palate of the hate departs;
If any would avenge,
Let him be quick, the viand flits,
It is a faded meat.
Anger as soon as fed is dead;
'T is starving makes it fat.






Mine—by The Right Of The White Election!

Mine—by the Right of the White Election!
Mine—by the Royal Seal!
Mine—by the Sign in the Scarlet prison—
Bars—cannot conceal!
Mine—here—in Vision—and in Veto!
Mine—by the Grave's Repeal—
Tilted—Confirmed—
Delirious Charter!
Mine—long as Ages steal!






More Life—went Out—when He Went

More Life—went out—when He went
Than Ordinary Breath—
Lit with a finer Phosphor—
Requiring in the Quench—
A Power of Renowned Cold,
The Climate of the Grave
A Temperature just adequate
So Anthracite, to live—
For some—an Ampler Zero—
A Frost more needle keen
Is necessary, to reduce
The Ethiop within.
Others—extinguish easier—
A Gnat's minutest Fan
Sufficient to obliterate
A Tract of Citizen—
Whose Peat lift—amply vivid—
Ignores the solemn News
That Popocatapel exists—
Or Etna's Scarlets, Choose—






'Morning' Means 'Milking' To The Farmer

'Morning'—means 'Milking'—to the Farmer—
Dawn—to the Teneriffe—
Dice—to the Maid—
Morning means just Risk—to the Lover—
Just revelation—to the Beloved—
Epicures—date a Breakfast—by it—
Brides—an Apocalypse—
Worlds—a Flood—
Faint-going Lives—Their Lapse from Sighing—
Faith—The Experiment of Our Lord






Morning—is The Place For Dew

Morning—is the place for Dew—
Corn—is made at Noon—
After dinner light—for flowers—
Dukes—for Setting Sun!






Morning—means

"Morning"—means "Milking"—to the Farmer—
Dawn—to the Teneriffe—
Dice—to the Maid—
Morning means just Risk—to the Lover—
Just revelation—to the Beloved—
Epicures—date a Breakfast—by it—
Brides—an Apocalypse—
Worlds—a Flood—
Faint-going Lives—Their Lapse from Sighing—
Faith—The Experiment of Our Lord






Morns Like These—we Parted

Morns like these—we parted—
Noons like these—she rose—
Fluttering first—then firmer
To her fair repose.
Never did she lisp it—
It was not for me—
She—was mute from transport—
I—from agony—
Till—the evening nearing
One the curtains drew—
Quick! A Sharper rustling!
And this linnet flew!






Most She Touched Me By Her Muteness

Most she touched me by her muteness-
Most she won me by the way
She presented her small figure-
Plea itself-for Charity-
Were a Crumb my whole possession-
Were there famine in the land-
Were it my resource from starving-
Could I such a plea withstand-
Not upon her knee to thank me
Sank this Beggar from the Sky-
But the Crumb partook-departed-
And returned On High-
I supposed-when sudden
Such a Praise began
'Twas as Space sat singing
To herself-and men-
'Twas the Winged Beggar-
Afterward I learned
To her Benefactor
Making Gratitude










Musicians Wrestle Everywhere

Musicians wrestle everywhere-
All day-among the crowded air
I hear the silver strife-
And-walking-long before the morn-
Such transport breaks upon the town
I think it that "New Life"!
If is not Bird-it has no nest-
Nor "Band"-in brass and scarlet-drest-
Nor Tamborin-nor Man-
It is not Hymn from pulpit read-
The "Morning Stars" the Treble led
On Time's first Afternoon!
Some-say-it is "the Spheres"-at play!
Some say that bright Majority
Of vanished Dames-and Men!
Some-think it service in the place
Where we-with late-celestial face-
Please God-shall Ascertain!






Must Be A Woe

Must be a Woe-
A loss or so-
To bend the eye
Best Beauty's way-
But-once aslant
It notes Delight
As difficult
As Stalactite
A Common Bliss
Were had for less-
The price-is
Even as the Grace-
Our lord-thought no
Extravagance
To pay-a Cross-






Mute Thy Coronation

Mute thy Coronation-
Meek my Vive le roi,
Fold a tiny courtier
In thine Ermine, Sir,
There to rest revering
Till the pageant by,
I can murmur broken,
Master, It was I-






My Best Acquaintances Are Those

My best Acquaintances are those
With Whom I spoke no Word-
The Stars that stated come to Town
Esteemed Me never rude
Although to their Celestial Call
I failed to make reply-
My constant-reverential Face
Sufficient Courtesy.






My Cocoon Tightens, Colors Tease

MY cocoon tightens, colors tease,
I 'm feeling for the air;
A dim capacity for wings
Degrades the dress I wear.
A power of butterfly must be
The aptitude to fly,
Meadows of majesty concedes
And easy sweeps of sky.
So I must baffle at the hint
And cipher at the sign,
And make much blunder, if at last
I take the clew divine.






My Eye Is Fuller Than My Vase

My Eye is fuller than my vase-
Her Cargo-is of Dew-
And still-my Heart-my Eye outweighs-
East India-for you!






My Faith Is Larger Than The Hills

My Faith is larger than the Hills-
So when the Hills decay-
My Faith must take the Purple Wheel
To show the Sun the way-
'Tis first He steps upon the Vane-
And then-upon the Hill-
And then abroad the World He go
To do His Golden Will-
And if His Yellow feet should miss-
The Bird would not arise-
The Flowers would slumber on their Stems-
No Bells have Paradise-
How dare I, therefore, stint a faith
On which so vast depends-
Lest Firmament should fail for me-
The Rivet in the Bands






My First Well Day—since Many Ill

My first well Day—since many ill—
I asked to go abroad,
And take the Sunshine in my hands,
And see the things in Pod—
A 'blossom just when I went in
To take my Chance with pain—
Uncertain if myself, or He,
Should prove the strongest One.
The Summer deepened, while we strove—
She put some flowers away—
And Redder cheeked Ones—in their stead—
A fond—illusive way—
To cheat Herself, it seemed she tried—
As if before a child
To fade—Tomorrow—Rainbows held
The Sepulchre, could hide.
She dealt a fashion to the Nut—She tied the Hoods to Seeds—She dropped bright scraps of Tint, about—And left Brazilian Threads
On every shoulder that she met—
Then both her Hands of Haze
Put up—to hide her parting Grace
From our unfitted eyes.
My loss, by sickness—Was it Loss?
Or that Ethereal Gain
One earns by measuring the Grave—
Then—measuring the Sun—






My Friend Attacks My Friend!

My friend attacks my friend!
Oh Battle picturesque!
Then I turn Soldier too,
And he turns Satirist!
How martial is this place!
Had I a mighty gun
I think I'd shoot the human race
And then to glory run!






My Friend Must Be A Bird

My friend must be a Bird—
Because it flies!
Mortal, my friend must be,
Because it dies!
Barbs has it, like a Bee!
Ah, curious friend!
Thou puzzlest me!






My Garden—like The Beach

My Garden—like the Beach—
Denotes there be—a Sea—
That's Summer—
Such as These—the Pearls
She fetches—such as Me






My Life Closed Twice

My life closed twice before its close-
It yet remains to see
If Immortality unveil
A third event to me
So huge, so hopeless to conceive
As these that twice befell.
Parting is all we know of heaven,
And all we need of hell.









My Nosegays Are For Captives;

My nosegays are for captives;
Dim, long-expectant eyes,
Fingers denied the plucking,
Patient till paradise.
To such, if they should whisper
Of morning and the moor,
They bear no other errand,
And I, no other prayer.






My Period Had Come For Prayer

My period had come for Prayer-
No other Art-would do-
My Tactics missed a rudiment-
Creator-Was it you?
God grows above-so those who pray
Horizons-must ascend-
And so I stepped upon the North
To see this Curious Friend-
His House was not-no sign had He-
By Chimney-nor by Door
Could I infer his Residence-
Vast Prairies of Air
Unbroken by a Settler-
Were all that I could see-
Infinitude-Had'st Thou no Face
That I might look on Thee?
The Silence condescended-
Creation stopped-for Me-
But awed beyond my errand-
I worshipped-did not "pray"-






My Portion Is Defeat—today

My Portion is Defeat—today—
A paler luck than Victory—
Less Paeans—fewer Bells—
The Drums don't follow Me—with tunes—
Defeat—a somewhat slower—means—
More Arduous than Balls—
'Tis populous with Bone and stain—
And Men too straight to stoop again—,
And Piles of solid Moan—
And Chips of Blank—in Boyish Eyes—
And scraps of Prayer—
And Death's surprise,
Stamped visible—in Stone—
There's somewhat prouder, over there—
The Trumpets tell it to the Air—
How different Victory
To Him who has it—and the One
Who to have had it, would have been
Contender—to die—






My Reward For Being, Was This

My Reward for Being, was This.
My premium-My Bliss-
An Admiralty, less-
A Sceptre-penniless-
And Realms-just Dross-
When Thrones accost my Hands-
With "Me, Miss, Me"-
I'll unroll Thee-
Dominions dowerless-beside this Grace-
Election-Vote-
The Ballots of Eternity, will show just that.






My River Runs To Thee

My River runs to thee—
Blue Sea! Wilt welcome me?
My River wait reply—
Oh Sea—look graciously—
I'll fetch thee Brooks
From spotted nooks—
Say—Sea—Take Me!






My Soul—accused Me—and I Quailed

My Soul—accused me—And I quailed—
As Tongue of Diamond had reviled
All else accused me—and I smiled—
My Soul—that Morning—was My friend—
Her favor—is the best Disdain
Toward Artifice of Time—or Men—
But Her Disdain—'twere lighter bear
A finger of Enamelled Fire—






My Wheel Is In The Dark

My wheel is in the dark!
I cannot see a spoke
Yet know its dripping feet
Go round and round.
My foot is on the Tide!
An unfrequented road-
Yet have all roads
A clearing at the end-
Some have resigned the Loom-
Some in the busy tomb
Find quaint employ-
Some with new-stately feet-
Pass royal through the gate-
Flinging the problem back
At you and I!






My Worthiness Is All My Doubt

My Worthiness is all my Doubt-
His Merit-all my fear-
Contrasting which, my quality
Do lowlier-appear-
Lest I should insufficient prove
For His beloved Need-
The Chiefest Apprehension
Upon my thronging Mind-
'Tis true-that Deity to stoop
Inherently incline-
For nothing higher than Itself
Itself can rest upon-
So I-the undivine abode
Of His Elect Content-
Conform my Soul-as 'twere a Church,
Unto Her Sacrament-






Myself Was Formed—a Carpenter

Myself was formed—a Carpenter—
An unpretending time
My Plane—and I, together wrought
Before a Builder came—
To measure our attainments—
Had we the Art of Boards
Sufficiently developed—He'd hire us
At Halves—
My Tools took Human—Faces—
The Bench, where we had toiled—
Against the Man—persuaded—
We—Temples build—I said—






Nature And God—i Neither Knew

Nature and God—I neither knew
Yet Both so well knew me
They startled, like Executors
Of My identity.
Yet Neither told—that I could learn—
My Secret as secure
As Herschel's private interest
Or Mercury's affair—






Nature Is What We See—

"Nature" is what we see—
The Hill—the Afternoon—
Squirrel—Eclipse—the Bumble bee—
Nay—Nature is Heaven—
Nature is what we hear—
The Bobolink—the Sea—
Thunder—the Cricket—
Nay—Nature is Harmony—
Nature is what we know—
Yet have no art to say—
So impotent Our Wisdom is
To her Simplicity.






Nature Rarer Uses Yellow

Nature rarer uses yellow
Than another hue;
Saves she all of that for sunsets,-Prodigal of blue,
Spending scarlet like a woman,
Yellow she affords
Only scantly and selectly,
Like a lover's words.






Nature The Gentlest Mother Is

Nature the gentlest mother is,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest of the waywardest.
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller be heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation
A summer afternoon,
Her household her assembly;
And when the sun go down,
Her voice among the aisles
Incite the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep,
She turns as long away
As will suffice tolight her lamps,
Then bending from the sky
With infinite affection
An infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.






Nature, The Gentlest Mother,

Nature, the gentlest mother,
Impatient of no child,
The feeblest or the waywardest,
Her admonition mild
In forest and the hill
By traveller is heard,
Restraining rampant squirrel
Or too impetuous bird.
How fair her conversation,
A summer afternoon,-Her household, her assembly;
And when the sun goes down
Her voice among the aisles
Incites the timid prayer
Of the minutest cricket,
The most unworthy flower.
When all the children sleep
She turns as long away
As will suffice to light her lamps;
Then, bending from the sky
With infinite affection
And infiniter care,
Her golden finger on her lip,
Wills silence everywhere.






Nature—sometimes Sears A Sapling

Nature—sometimes sears a Sapling—
Sometimes—scalps a Tree—
Her Green People recollect it
When they do not die—
Fainter Leaves—to Further Seasons—
Dumbly testify—
We—who have the Souls—
Die oftener—Not so vitally—






Never For Society

Never for Society
He shall seek in vain-
Who His own acquaintance
Cultivate-Of Men
Wiser Men may weary-
But the Man within
Never knew Satiety-
Better entertain
Than could Border Ballad-
Or Biscayan Hymn-
Neither introduction
Need You-unto Him-






New Feet Within My Garden Go

New feet within my garden go-
New fingers stir the sod-
A Troubadour upon the Elm
Betrays the solitude.
New children play upon the green-
New Weary sleep below-
And still the pensive Spring returns-
And still the punctual snow!






No Bobolink—reverse His Singing

No Bobolink—reverse His Singing
When the only Tree
Ever He minded occupying
By the Farmer be—
Clove to the Root—
His Spacious Future—
Best Horizon—gone—
Whose Music be His
Only Anodyne—
Brave Bobolink—






No Crowd That Has Occurred

No Crowd that has occurred
Exhibit-I suppose
That General Attendance
That Resurrection-does-
Circumference be full-
The long restricted Grave
Assert her Vital Privilege-
The Dust-connect-and live-
On Atoms-features place-
All Multitudes that were
Efface in the Comparison-
As Suns-dissolve a star-
Solemnity-prevail-
Its Individual Doom
Possess each separate Consciousness-
August-Absorbed-Numb-
What Duplicate-exist-
What Parallel can be-
Of the Significance of This-
To Universe-and Me?






No Man Can Compass A Despair

No Man can compass a Despair-
As round a Goalless Road
No faster than a Mile at once
The Traveller proceed-
Unconscious of the Width-
Unconscious that the Sun
Be setting on His progress-
So accurate the One
At estimating Pain-
Whose own-has just begun-
His ignorance-the Angel
That pilot Him along-






No Matter—now—sweet

No matter—now—Sweet—
But when I'm Earl—
Won't you wish you'd spoken
To that dull Girl?
Trivial a Word—just—
Trivial—a Smile—
But won't you wish you'd spared one
When I'm Earl?
I shan't need it—then—
Crests—will do—
Eagles on my Buckles—
On my Belt—too—
Ermine—my familiar Gown—
Say—Sweet—then
Won't you wish you'd smiled—just—
Me upon?






No Notice Gave She, But A Change

No Notice gave She, but a Change-
No Message, but a Sigh-
For Whom, the Time did not suffice
That She should specify.
She was not warm, though Summer shone
Nor scrupulous of cold
Though Rime by Rime, the steady Frost
Upon Her Bosom piled-
Of shrinking ways-she did not fright
Though all the Village looked-
But held Her gravity aloft-
And met the gaze-direct-
And when adjusted like a Seed
In careful fitted Ground
Unto the Everlasting Spring
And hindered but a Mound
Her Warm return, if so she chose-
And We-imploring drew-
Removed our invitation by
As Some She never knew-






No Other Can Reduce

No Other can reduce
Our mortal Consequence
Like the remembering it be nought
A Period from hence
But Contemplation for
Contemporaneous Nought
Our Single Competition
Jehovah's Estimate.






No Prisoner Be

No Prisoner be-
Where Liberty-
Himself-abide with Thee-






No Rack Can Torture Me

No Rack can torture me-
My Soul-at Liberty-
Behind this mortal Bone
There knits a bolder One-
You cannot prick with saw-
Nor pierce with Scimitar-
Two Bodies-therefore be-
Bind One-The Other fly-
The Eagle of his Nest
No easier divest-
And gain the Sky
Than mayest Thou-
Except Thyself may be
Thine Enemy-
Captivity is Consciousness-
So's Liberty.






No Romance Sold Unto

No Romance sold unto
Could so enthrall a Man
As the perusal of
His Individual One-
'Tis Fiction's-When 'tis small enough
To Credit-'Tisn't true!






Nobody Knows This Little Rose

Nobody knows this little Rose-
It might a pilgrim be
Did I not take it from the ways
And lift it up to thee.
Only a Bee will miss it-
Only a Butterfly,
Hastening from far journey-
On its breast to lie-
Only a Bird will wonder-
Only a Breeze will sigh-
Ah Little Rose-how easy
For such as thee to die!






None Can Experience Sting

None can experience sting
Who Bounty-have not known-
The fact of Famine-could not be
Except for Fact of Corn-
Want-is a meagre Art
Acquired by Reverse-
The Poverty that was not Wealth-
Cannot be Indigence.






Noon—is The Hinge Of Day

Noon—is the Hinge of Day—
Evening—the Tissue Door—
Morning—the East compelling the sill
Till all the World is ajar—






Not
Not "Revelation"—'tis—that waits,
But our unfurnished eyes—






Not "Revelation"-'Tis-That Waits

Not "Revelation"-'tis-that waits,
But our unfurnished eyes-






Not All Die Early, Dying Young

Not all die early, dying young-
Maturity of Fate
Is consummated equally
In Ages, or a Night-
A Hoary Boy, I've known to drop
Whole statured-by the side
Of Junior of Fourscore-'twas Act
Not Period-that died.






Not any sunny tone

Not any sunny tone
From any fervent zone
Find entrance there Better a grave of Balm
Toward human nature's home And Robins near Than a stupendous Tomb
Proclaiming to the Gloom
How dead we are 





Not In This World To See His Face

Not in this world to see his face
Sounds long, until I read the place
Where this is said to be
But just the primer to a life
Unopened, rare, upon the shelf,
Clasped yet to him and me.
And yet, my primer suits me so
I would not choose a book to know
Than that, be sweeter wise;
Might some one else so learned be.
And leave me just my A B C,
Himself could have the skies.






Not Probable—the Barest Chance

Not probable—The barest Chance—
A smile too few—a word too much
And far from Heaven as the Rest—
The Soul so close on Paradise—
What if the Bird from journey far—
Confused by Sweets—as Mortals—are—
Forget the secret of His wing
And perish—but a Bough between—
Oh, Groping feet—
Oh Phantom Queen!






Not Sickness stains the Brave,

Not Sickness stains the Brave,
Nor any Dart,
Nor Doubt of Scene to come,
But an adjourning Heart 





Not That We Did, Shall Be The Test

Not that We did, shall be the test
When Act and Will are done
But what Our Lord infers We would
Had We diviner been-






Not with a club, the Heart is broken

Not with a club, the Heart is broken,
Nor with a stone;
A whip, so small you could not see it,
I've known
To lash the magic creature
Till it fell,
Yet that whip's name too noble
Then to tell.
Magnanimous of bird
By boy descried,
To sing unto the stone
Of which it died.
Next: The Only News I know






Of All The Souls That Stand Create

Of all the souls that stand create
I have elected one.
When sense from spirit files away,
And subterfuge is done;
When that which is and that which was
Apart, intrinsic, stand,
And this brief tragedy of flesh
Is shifted like a sand;
When figures show their royal front
And mists are carved sway,-Behold the atom I Feferred
To all the lists of clay!






Of All The Sounds Despatched Abroad

Of all the Sounds despatched abroad,
There's not a Charge to me
Like that old measure in the Boughs-
That phraseless Melody-
The Wind does-working like a Hand,
Whose fingers Comb the Sky-
Then quiver down-with tufts of Tune-
Permitted Gods, and me-
Inheritance, it is, to us-
Beyond the Art to Earn-
Beyond the trait to take away
By Robber, since the Gain
Is gotten not of fingers-
And inner than the Bone-
Hid golden, for the whole of Days,
And even in the Urn,
I cannot vouch the merry Dust
Do not arise and play
In some odd fashion of its own,
Some quainter Holiday,
When Winds go round and round in Bands-
And thrum upon the door,
And Birds take places, overhead,
To bear them Orchestra.
I crave Him grace of Summer Boughs,
If such an Outcast be-
Who never heard that fleshless Chant-
Rise-solemn-on the Tree,
As if some Caravan of Sound
Off Deserts, in the Sky,
Had parted Rank,
Then knit, and swept-
In Seamless Company-











Of Being Is A Bird

Of Being is a Bird
The likest to the Down
An Easy Breeze do put afloat
The General Heavens-upon-
It soars-and shifts-and whirls-
And measures with the Clouds
In easy-even-dazzling pace-
No different the Birds-
Except a Wake of Music
Accompany their feet-
As did the Down emit a Tune-
For Ecstasy-of it






Of Bronze—and Blaze

Of Bronze—and Blaze—
The North—Tonight—
So adequate—it forms—
So preconcerted with itself—
So distant—to alarms—
And Unconcern so sovereign
To Universe, or me—
Infects my simple spirit
With Taints of Majesty—
Till I take vaster attitudes—
And strut upon my stem—
Disdaining Men, and Oxygen,
For Arrogance of them—
My Splendors, are Menagerie—
But their Completeless Show
Will entertain the Centuries
When I, am long ago,
An Island in dishonored Grass—
Whom none but Beetles—know.






Of Brussels—it Was Not

Of Brussels—it was not—
Of Kidderminster? Nay—
The Winds did buy it of the Woods—
They—sold it unto me
It was a gentle price—
The poorest—could afford—
It was within the frugal purse
Of Beggar—or of Bird—
Of small and spicy Yards—
In hue—a mellow Dun—
Of Sunshine—and of Sere—Composed—
But, principally—of Sun—
The Wind—unrolled it fast—
And spread it on the Ground—
Upholsterer of the Pines—is He—
Upholsterer—of the Pond—






Of Consciousness, Her Awful Mate

Of Consciousness, her awful Mate
The Soul cannot be rid-
As easy the secreting her
Behind the Eyes of God.
The deepest hid is sighted first
And scant to Him the Crowd-
What triple Lenses burn upon
The Escapade from God-






Of Course—i Prayed

Of Course—I prayed—
And did God Care?
He cared as much as on the Air
A Bird—had stamped her foot—
And cried "Give Me"—
My Reason—Life—
I had not had—but for Yourself—
'Twere better Charity
To leave me in the Atom's Tomb—
Merry, and Nought, and gay, and numb—
Than this smart Misery.






Of Nearness To Her Sundered Things

Of nearness to her sundered Things
The Soul has special times-
When Dimness-looks the Oddity-
Distinctness-easy-seems-
The Shapes we buried, dwell about,
Familiar, in the Rooms-
Untarnished by the Sepulchre,
The Mouldering Playmate comes-
In just the Jacket that he wore-
Long buttoned in the Mold
Since we-old mornings, Children-played-
Divided-by a world-
The Grave yields back her Robberies-
The Years, our pilfered Things-
Bright Knots of Apparitions
Salute us, with their wings-
As we-it were-that perished-
Themself-had just remained till we rejoin them-
And 'twas they, and not ourself
That mourned.






Of Silken Speech And Specious Shoe

Of Silken Speech and Specious Shoe
A Traitor is the Bee
His service to the newest Grace
Present continually
His Suit a chance
His Troth a Term
Protracted as the Breeze
Continual Ban propoundeth He
Continual Divorce.






Of so divine a Loss

Of so divine a Loss
We enter but the Gain,
Indemnity for Loneliness
That such a Bliss has been.






Of Tolling Bell I Ask The Cause?

Of Tolling Bell I ask the cause?
"A Soul has gone to Heaven"
I'm answered in a lonesome tone-
Is Heaven then a Prison?
That Bells should ring till all should know
A Soul had gone to Heaven
Would seem to me the more the way
A Good News should be given.






Of Tribulation, These Are They

Of Tribulation, these are They,
Denoted by the White-
The Spangled Gowns, a lesser Rank
Of Victors-designate-
All these-did conquer-
But the ones who overcame most times-
Wear nothing commoner than Snow-
No Ornament, but Palms-
Surrender-is a sort unknown-
On this superior soil-
Defeat-an outgrown Anguish-
Remembered, as the Mile
Our panting Ankle barely passed-
When Night devoured the Road-
But we-stood whispering in the House-
And all we said-was "Saved"!






Of Yellow was the outer Sky

Nature rarer uses Yellow
Than another Hue.
Saves she all of that for Sunsets
Prodigal of Blue
Spending Scarlet, like a Woman
Yellow she affords
Only scantly and selectly
Like a Lover's Words.






Oh Shadow on the Grass

Oh Shadow on the Grass,
Art thou a Step or not?
Go make thee fair my Candidate
My nominated Heart Oh Shadow on the Grass
While I delay to guess
Some other thou wilt consecrate Oh Unelected Face 





On A Columnar Self

On a Columnar Self-
How ample to rely
In Tumult-or Extremity-
How good the Certainty
That Lever cannot pry-
And Wedge cannot divide
Conviction-That Granitic Base-
Though None be on our Side-
Suffice Us-for a Crowd-
Ourself-and Rectitude-
And that Assembly-not far off
From furthest Spirit-God-






On my volcano grows the Grass

On my volcano grows the Grass
A meditative spot 
An acre for a Bird to choose
Would be the General thought 
How red the Fire rocks below 
How insecure the sod
Did I disclose
Would populate with awe my solitude.






On Such A Night, Or Such A Night

On such a night, or such a night,
Would anybody care
If such a little figure
Slipped quiet from its chair-
So quiet-Oh how quiet,
That nobody might know
But that the little figure
Rocked softer-to and fro-
On such a dawn, or such a dawn-
Would anybody sigh
That such a little figure
Too sound asleep did lie
For Chanticleer to wake it-
Or stirring house below-
Or giddy bird in orchard-
Or early task to do?
There was a little figure plump
For every little knoll-
Busy needles, and spools of thread-
And trudging feet from school-
Playmates, and holidays, and nuts-
And visions vast and small-
Strange that the feet so precious charged
Should reach so small a goal!






On That Dear Frame The Years Had Worn

On that dear Frame the Years had worn
Yet precious as the House
In which We first experienced Light
The Witnessing, to Us-
Precious! It was conceiveless fair
As Hands the Grave had grimed
Should softly place within our own
Denying that they died.






On This Long Storm The Rainbow Rose

On this long storm the Rainbow rose-
On this late Morn-the Sun-
The clouds-like listless Elephants-
Horizons-straggled down-
The Birds rose smiling, in their nests-
The gales-indeed-were done-
Alas, how heedless were the eyes-
On whom the summer shone!
The quiet nonchalance of death-
No Daybreak-can bestir-
The slow-Archangel's syllables
Must awaken her!






On This Wondrous Sea

On this wondrous sea
Sailing silently,
Ho! Pilot, ho!
Knowest thou the shore
Where no breakers roar-
Where the storm is o'er?
In the peaceful west
Many the sails at rest-
The anchors fast-
Thither I pilot thee-
Land Ho! Eternity!
Ashore at last!






Once More, My Now Bewildered Dove

Once more, my now bewildered Dove
Bestirs her puzzled wings
Once more her mistress, on the deep
Her troubled question flings-
Thrice to the floating casement
The Patriarch's bird returned,
Courage! My brave Columba!
There may yet be Land!






One And One—are One

One and One—are One—
Two—be finished using—
Well enough for Schools—
But for Minor Choosing—
Life—just—or Death—
Or the Everlasting—
More—would be too vast
For the Soul's Comprising—






One Anguish—in A Crowd

One Anguish—in a Crowd—
A Minor thing—it sounds—
And yet, unto the single Doe
Attempted of the Hounds
'Tis Terror as consummate
As Legions of Alarm
Did leap, full flanked, upon the Host—
'Tis Units—make the Swarm—
A Small Leech—on the Vitals—
The sliver, in the Lung—
The Bung out—of an Artery—
Are scarce accounted—Harms—
Yet might—by relation
To that Repealless thing—
A Being—impotent to end—
When once it has begun—






One Blessing Had I Than The Rest

One Blessing had I than the rest
So larger to my Eyes
That I stopped gauging-satisfied-
For this enchanted size-
It was the limit of my Dream-
The focus of my Prayer-
A perfect-paralyzing Bliss-
Contented as Despair-
I knew no more of Want-or Cold-
Phantasms both become
For this new Value in the Soul-
Supremest Earthly Sum-
The Heaven below the Heaven above-
Obscured with ruddier Blue-
Life's Latitudes leant over-full-
The Judgment perished-too-
Why Bliss so scantily disburse-
Why Paradise defer-
Why Floods be served to Us-in Bowls-
I speculate no more-






One Crucifixion Is Recorded—only

One Crucifixion is recorded—only—
How many be
Is not affirmed of Mathematics—
Or History—
One Calvary—exhibited to Stranger—
As many be
As persons—or Peninsulas—
Gethsemane—
Is but a Province—in the Being's Centre—
Judea—
For Journey—or Crusade's Achieving—
Too near—
Our Lord—indeed—made Compound Witness—
And yet—
There's newer—nearer Crucifixion
Than That—






One Day Is There Of The Series

One Day is there of the Series
Termed Thanksgiving Day.
Celebrated part at Table
Part in Memory.
Neither Patriarch nor Pussy
I dissect the Play
Seems it to my Hooded thinking
Reflex Holiday.
Had there been no sharp Subtraction
From the early Sum-
Not an Acre or a Caption
Where was once a Room-
Not a Mention, whose small Pebble
Wrinkled any Sea,
Unto Such, were such Assembly
'Twere Thanksgiving Day.






One Dignity Delays For All

One dignity delays for all-
One mitred Afternoon-
None can avoid this purple-
None evade this Crown!
Coach, it insures, and footmen-
Chamber, and state, and throng-
Bells, also, in the village
As we ride grand along!
What dignified Attendants!
What service when we pause!
How loyally at parting
Their hundred hats they raise!
Her pomp surpassing ermine
When simple You, and I,
Present our meek escutheon
And claim the rank to die!






One Life Of So Much Consequence!

One Life of so much Consequence!
Yet I-for it-would pay-
My Soul's entire income-
In ceaseless-salary-
One Pearl-to me-so signal-
That I would instant dive-
Although-I knew-to take it-
Would cost me-just a life!
The Sea is full-I know it!
That-does not blur my Gem!
It burns-distinct from all the row-
Intact-in Diadem!
The life is thick-I know it!
Yet-not so dense a crowd-
But Monarchs-are perceptible-
Far down the dustiest Road!






One Need Not Be A Chamber To Be Haunted,

One need not be a chamber to be haunted,
One need not be a house;
The brain has corridors surpassing
Material place.
Far safer, of a midnight meeting
External ghost,
Than an interior confronting
That whiter host.
Far safer through an Abbey gallop,
The stones achase,
Than, moonless, one's own self encounter
In lonesome place.
Ourself, behind ourself concealed,
Should startle most;
Assassin, hid in our apartment,
Be horror's least.
The prudent carries a revolver,
He bolts the door,
O'erlooking a superior spectre
More near.






One Sister Have I In Our House

One Sister have I in our house,
And one, a hedge away.
There's only one recorded,
But both belong to me.
One came the road that I came-
And wore my last year's gown-
The other, as a bird her nest,
Builded our hearts among.
She did not sing as we did-
It was a different tune-
Herself to her a music
As Bumble bee of June.
Today is far from Childhood-
But up and down the hills
I held her hand the tighter-
Which shortened all the miles-
And still her hum
The years among,
Deceives the Butterfly;
Still in her Eye
The Violets lie
Mouldered this many May.
I spilt the dew-
But took the morn-
I chose this single star
From out the wide night's numbers-
Sue - forevermore!






One Year Ago—jots What?

One Year ago—jots what?
God—spell the word! I—can't—
Was't Grace? Not that—
Was't Glory? That—will do—
Spell slower—Glory—
Such Anniversary shall be—
Sometimes—not often—in Eternity—
When farther Parted, than the Common Woe—
Look—feed upon each other's faces—so—
In doubtful meal, if it be possible
Their Banquet's true—
I tasted—careless—then—
I did not know the Wine
Came once a World—Did you?
Oh, had you told me so—
This Thirst would blister—easier—now—
You said it hurt you—most—
Mine—was an Acorn's Breast—
And could not know how fondness grew
In Shaggier Vest—
Perhaps—I couldn't—
But, had you looked in—
A Giant—eye to eye with you, had been—
No Acorn—then—
So—Twelve months ago—
We breathed—
Then dropped the Air—
Which bore it best?
Was this—the patientest—
Because it was a Child, you know—
And could not value—Air?
If to be "Elder"—mean most pain—
I'm old enough, today, I'm certain—then—
As old as thee—how soon?
One—Birthday more—or Ten?
Let me—choose!
Ah, Sir, None!






Only A Shrine, But Mine

Only a Shrine, but Mine-
I made the Taper shine-
Madonna dim, to whom all Feet may come,
Regard a Nun-
Thou knowest every Woe-
Needless to tell thee-so-
But can'st thou do
The Grace next to it-heal?
That looks a harder skill to us-
Still-just as easy, if it be thy Will
To thee-Grant me-
Thou knowest, though, so Why tell thee?






Only God—detect The Sorrow

Only God—detect the Sorrow—
Only God—
The Jehovahs—are no Babblers—
Unto God—
God the Son—Confide it—
Still secure—
God the Spirit's Honor—
Just as sure—






Our Journey Had Advanced;

Our journey had advanced;
Our feet were almost come
To that odd fork in Being's road,
Eternity by term.
Our pace took sudden awe,
Our feet reluctant led.
Before were cities, but between,
The forest of the dead.
Retreat was out of hope,-Behind, a sealed route,
Eternity's white flag before,
And God at every gate.






Our Little Kinsmen—after Rain

Our little Kinsmen—after Rain
In plenty may be seen,
A Pink and Pulpy multitude
The tepid Ground upon.
A needless life, it seemed to me
Until a little Bird
As to a Hospitality
Advanced and breakfasted.
As I of He, so God of Me
I pondered, may have judged,
And left the little Angle Worm
With Modesties enlarged.






Our lives are Swiss --
So still -- so Cool --Till some odd afternoonThe Alps neglect their CurtainsAnd we look farther on!Italy stands the other side!While like a guard between --The solemn Alps --The siren AlpsForever intervene!






Our Share Of Night To Bear

Our share of night to bear-Our share of morning-Our blank in bliss to fillOur blank in scorning-Here a star, and there a star,Some lose their way!Here a mist, and there a mist,Afterwards-Day!






Ourselves Were Wed One Summer—dear

Ourselves were wed one summer—dear—
Your Vision—was in June—
And when Your little Lifetime failed,
I wearied—too—of mine—
And overtaken in the Dark—
Where You had put me down—
By Some one carrying a Light—
I—too—received the Sign.
'Tis true—Our Futures different lay—
Your Cottage—faced the sun—
While Oceans—and the North must be—
On every side of mine
'Tis true, Your Garden led the Bloom,
For mine—in Frosts—was sown—
And yet, one Summer, we were Queens—
But You—were crowned in June—






Out Of Sight? What Of That?

Out of sight? What of that?
See the Bird-reach it!
Curve by Curve-Sweep by Sweep-
Round the Steep Air-
Danger! What is that to Her?
Better 'tis to fail-there-
Than debate-here-
Blue is Blue-the World through-
Amber-Amber-Dew-Dew-
Seek-Friend-and see-
Heaven is shy of Earth-that's all-
Bashful Heaven-thy Lovers small-
Hide-too-from thee-






Over And Over, Like A Tune

Over and over, like a Tune-
The Recollection plays-
Drums off the Phantom Battlements
Cornets of Paradise-
Snatches, from Baptized Generations-
Cadences too grand
But for the Justified Processions
At the Lord's Right hand.






Over The Fence

Over the fence-
Strawberries-grow-
Over the fence-
I could climb-if I tried, I know-
Berries are nice!
But-if I stained my Apron-
God would certainly scold!
Oh, dear,-I guess if He were a Boy-
He'd-climb-if He could!






Pain
Pain--has an Element of Blank-It cannot recollect
When it begun--or if there were
A time when it was not-It has no Future--but itself-Its Infinite Contain
Its Past--enlightened to perceive
New Periods--of Pain.






Pain

Pain--has an Element of Blank--It cannot recollectWhen it begun--or if there wereA time when it was not--It has no Future--but itself--Its Infinite ContainIts Past--enlightened to perceiveNew Periods--of Pain.






Pain Has An Element Of Blank;

Pain has an element of blank;
It cannot recollect
When it began, or if there were
A day when it was not.
It has no future but itself,
Its infinite realms contain
Its past, enlightened to perceive
New periods of pain.






Pain-Expands The Time

Pain-expands the Time-
Ages coil within
The minute Circumference
Of a single Brain-
Pain contracts-the Time-
Occupied with Shot
Gamuts of Eternities
Are as they were not-






Papa Above!

Papa above!
Regard a Mouse
O'erpowered by the Cat!
Reserve within thy kingdom
A "Mansion" for the Rat!
Snug in seraphic Cupboards
To nibble all the day
While unsuspecting Cycles
Wheel solemnly away!






Part Five: The Single Hound

THE LARGEST fire ever known
Occurs each afternoon,
Discovered is without surprise,
Proceeds without concern:
Consumes, and no report to men,
An Occidental town,
Rebuilt another morning
To be again burned down.






Partake As Doth The Bee

Partake as doth the Bee,
Abstemiously.
The Rose is an Estate-
In Sicily.






Patience—has A Quiet Outer

Patience—has a quiet Outer—
Patience—Look within—
Is an Insect's futile forces
Infinites—between—
'Scaping one—against the other
Fruitlesser to fling—
Patience—is the Smile's exertion
Through the quivering—






Peace Is A Fiction Of Our Faith

Peace is a fiction of our Faith-
The Bells a Winter Night
Bearing the Neighbor out of Sound
That never did alight.






Perhaps I Asked Too Large
Perhaps I asked too large --I take -- no less than skies --For Earths, grow thick asBerries, in my native town --My Basked holds -- just -- Firmaments --Those -- dangle easy -- on my arm,But smaller bundles -- Cram.






Perhaps You Think Me Stooping

Perhaps you think me stooping
I'm not ashamed of that
Christ-stooped until He touched the Grave-
Do those at Sacrament
Commemorative Dishonor
Or love annealed of love
Until it bend as low as Death
Redignified, above?






Perhaps You'D Like To Buy A Flower

Perhaps you'd like to buy a flower,
But I could never sell-
If you would like to borrow,
Until the Daffodil
Unties her yellow Bonnet
Beneath the village door,
Until the Bees, from Clover rows
Their Hock, and Sherry, draw,
Why, I will lend until just then,
But not an hour more!






Pigmy Seraphs—gone Astray

Pigmy seraphs—gone astray—
Velvet people from Vevay—
Balles from some lost summer day—
Bees exclusive Coterie—
Paris could not lay the fold
Belted down with Emerald—
Venice could not show a check
Of a tint so lustrous meek—
Never such an Ambuscade
As of briar and leaf displayed
For my little damask maid—
I had rather wear her grace
Than an Earl's distinguished face—
I had rather dwell like her
Than be "Duke of Exeter"—
Royalty enough for me
To subdue the Bumblebee.






Poor Little Heart!

Poor little Heart!
Did they forget thee?
Then dinna care! Then dinna care!
Proud little Heart!
Did they forsake thee?
Be debonnaire! Be debonnaire!
Frail little Heart!
I would not break thee-
Could'st credit me? Could'st credit me?
Gay little Heart-
Like Morning Glory!
Wind and Sun-wilt thee array!






Portraits Are To Daily Faces

Portraits are to daily faces
As an Evening West,
To a fine, pedantic sunshine-
In a satin Vest!






Praise it - 'tis dead Praise it - 'tis dead It cannot glow Warm this inclement Ear
With the encomium it earned
Since it was gathered here Invest this alabaster Zest
In the Delights of Dust Remitted - since it flitted it
In recusance august.






Prayer Is The Little Implement

Prayer is the little implement
Through which Men reach
Where Presence-is denied them.
They fling their Speech
By means of it-in God's Ear-
If then He hear-
This sums the Apparatus
Comprised in Prayer-






Precious To Me—she Still Shall Be

Precious to Me—She still shall be—
Though She forget the name I bear—
The fashion of the Gown I wear—
The very Color of My Hair—
So like the Meadows—now—
I dared to show a Tress of Theirs
If haply—She might not despise
A Buttercup's Array—
I know the Whole—obscures the Part—
The fraction—that appeased the Heart
Till Number's Empery—
Remembered—as the Millner's flower
When Summer's Everlasting Dower—
Confronts the dazzled Bee.






Presentiment Is That Long Shadow On The Lawn
Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawn
Indicative that suns go down;
The notice to the startled grass
That darkness is about to pass.






Promise This—when You Be Dying

Promise This—When You be Dying—
Some shall summon Me—
Mine belong Your latest Sighing—
Mine—to Belt Your Eye—
Not with Coins—though they be Minted
From an Emperor's Hand—
Be my lips—the only Buckle
Your low Eyes—demand—
Mine to stay—when all have wandered—
To devise once more
If the Life be too surrendered—
Life of Mine—restore—
Poured like this—My Whole Libation—
Just that You should see
Bliss of Death—Life's Bliss extol thro'
Imitating You—
Mine—to guard Your Narrow Precinct—
To seduce the Sun
Longest on Your South, to linger,
Largest Dews of Morn
To demand, in Your low favor
Lest the Jealous Grass
Greener lean—Or fonder cluster
Round some other face—
Mine to supplicate Madonna—
If Madonna be
Could behold so far a Creature—
Christ—omitted—Me—
Just to follow Your dear future—
Ne'er so far behind—





For My Heaven—
Had I not been
Most enough—denied?






Proud Of My Broken Heart
Proud of my broken heart, since thou didst break it.
Proud of the pain, I did not feel? till thee.
Proud of my night, since thou, with moons, dos't shake it.
Not to partake thy passion, -my humility
Thou can'st not boast, like Jesus, drunken without companion
Was the strong cup of anguish brewed for the Nazarene
Thou can'st not pierce tradition with the peerless puncture,
See! I usurped thy crucifix to honor mine!






Publication
Publication -- is the Auction
Of the Mind of Man -Poverty -- be justifying
For so foul a thing
Possibly -- but We -- would rather
From Our Garret go
White -- Unto the White Creator -Than invest -- Our Snow -Thought belong to Him who gave it -Then -- to Him Who bear
Its Corporeal illustration -- Sell
The Royal Air -In the Parcel -- Be the Merchant
Of the Heavenly Grace -But reduce no Human Spirit
To Disgrace of Price -





Publication—is The Auction
Publication—is the Auction
Of the Mind of Man—
Poverty—be justifying
For so foul a thing
Possibly—but We—would rather
From Our Garret go
White—Unto the White Creator—
Than invest—Our Snow—
Thought belong to Him who gave it—
Then—to Him Who bear
Its Corporeal illustration—Sell
The Royal Air—
In the Parcel—Be the Merchant
Of the Heavenly Grace—
But reduce no Human Spirit
To Disgrace of Price—






Purple—is Fashionable Twice

Purple—is fashionable twice—
This season of the year,
And when a soul perceives itself
To be an Emperor.






Put Up My Lute!

Put up my lute!
What of-my Music!
Since the sole ear I cared to charm-
Passive-as Granite-laps My Music-
Sobbing-will suit-as well as psalm!
Would but the "Memnon" of the Desert-
Teach me the strain
That vanquished Him-
When He-surrendered to the Sunrise-
Maybe-that-would awaken-them!






Read—sweet—how Others—strove

Read—Sweet—how others—strove—
Till we—are stouter—
What they—renounced—
Till we—are less afraid—
How many times they—bore the faithful witness—
Till we—are helped—
As if a Kingdom—cared!
Read then—of faith—
That shone above the fagot—
Clear strains of Hymn
The River could not drown—
Brave names of Men—
And Celestial Women—
Passed out—of Record
Into—Renown!






Rearrange a 'Wife's' affection!
Rearrange a 'Wife's' affection!
When they dislocate my Brain!
Amputate my freckled Bosom!
Make me bearded like a man!
Blush, my spirit, in thy Fastness Blush, my unacknowledged clay Seven years of troth have taught thee
More than Wifehood every may!
Love that never leaped its socket Trust entrenched in narrow pain Constancy thro' fire - awarded Anguish - bare of anodyne!
Burden - borne so far triumphant None suspect me of the crown,
For I wear the 'Thorns' till Sunset Then - my Diadem put on.
Big my Secret but it's bandaged It will never get away
Till the Day its Weary Keeper
Leads it through the Grave to thee.






Rehearsal To Ourselves

Rehearsal to Ourselves
Of a Withdrawn Delight-
Affords a Bliss like Murder-
Omnipotent-Acute-
We will not drop the Dirk-
Because We love the Wound
The Dirk Commemorate-Itself
Remind Us that we died.






Remembrance has a Rear and Front
Remembrance has a Rear and Front 'Tis something like a House It has a Garret also
For Refuse and the Mouse.
Besides the deepest Cellar
That ever Mason laid Look to it by its Fathoms
Ourselves be not pursued 





Remorse - Is Memory - Awake Remorse - is Memory - awake Her Parties all astir A Presence of Departed Acts At window - and at Door Its Past - set down before the Soul
And lighted with a Match Perusal - to facilitate And help Belief to stretch Remorse is cureless - the Disease
Not even God - can heal For 'tis His institution - and
The Adequate of Hell 





Removed From Accident Of Loss

Removed from Accident of Loss
By Accident of Gain
Befalling not my simple Days-
Myself had just to earn-
Of Riches-as unconscious
As is the Brown Malay
Of Pearls in Eastern Waters,
Marked His-What Holiday
Would stir his slow conception-
Had he the power to dream
That put the Dower's fraction-
Awaited even-Him-






Renunciation
Renunciation -- is a piercing Virtue -The letting go
A Presence -- for an Expectation -Not now -The putting out of Eyes -Just Sunrise -Lest Day -Day's Great Progenitor -Outvie
Renunciation -- is the Choosing
Against itself -Itself to justify
Unto itself -When larger function -Make that appear -Smaller -- that Covered Vision -- Here -





Rest At Night

Rest at Night
The Sun from shining,
Nature-and some Men-
Rest at Noon-some Men-
While Nature
And the Sun-go on-






Reverse Cannot Befall

Reverse cannot befall
That fine Prosperity
Whose Sources are interior-
As soon-Adversity
A Diamond-overtake
In far-Bolivian Ground-
Misfortune hath no implement
Could mar it-if it found-






Revolution is the Pod
Revolution is the Pod
Systems rattle from
When the Winds of Will are stirred
Excellent is Bloom
But except its Russet Base
Every Summer be
The Entomber of itself,
So of Liberty Left inactive on the Stalk
All its Purple fled
Revolution shakes it for
Test if it be dead.






Ribbons Of The Year

Ribbons of the Year-
Multitude Brocade-
Worn to Nature's Party once
Then, as flung aside
As a faded Bead
Or a Wrinkled Pearl
Who shall charge the Vanity
Of the Maker's Girl?






Robbed By Death—but That Was Easy

Robbed by Death—but that was easy—
To the failing Eye
I could hold the latest Glowing—
Robbed by Liberty
For Her Jugular Defences—
This, too, I endured—
Hint of Glory—it afforded—
For the Brave Beloved—
Fraud of Distance—Fraud of Danger,
Fraud of Death—to bear—
It is Bounty—to Suspense's
Vague Calamity—
Stalking our entire Possession
On a Hair's result—
Then—seesawing—coolly—on it—
Trying if it split—






Safe In Their Alabaster Chambers,

Safe in their alabaster chambers,
Untouched by morning and untouched by noon,
Sleep the meek members of the resurrection,
Rafter of satin, and roof of stone.
Light laughs the breeze in her castle of sunshine;
Babbles the bee in a stolid ear;
Pipe the sweet birds in ignorant cadences, -Ah, what sagacity perished here!
Grand go the years in the crescent above them;
Worlds scoop their arcs, and firmaments row,
Diadems drop and Doges surrender,
Soundless as dots on a disk of snow.






Said Death To Passion

Said Death to Passion
'Give of thine an Acre unto me.'
Said Passion, through contracting Breaths
'A Thousand Times Thee Nay.'
Bore Death from Passion
All His East
He - sovereign as the Sun
Resituated in the West
And the Debate was done.






Savior! I'Ve No One Else To Tell

Savior! I've no one else to tell-
And so I trouble thee.
I am the one forgot thee so-
Dost thou remember me?
Nor, for myself, I came so far-
That were the little load-
I brought thee the imperial Heart
I had not strength to hold-
The Heart I carried in my own-
Till mine too heavy grew-
Yet-strangest-heavier since it went-
Is it too large for you?






September's Baccalaureate

September's Baccalaureate
A combination is
Of Crickets - Crows - and Retrospects
And a dissembling Breeze
That hints without assuming An Innuendo sear
That makes the Heart put up its Fun
And turn Philosopher.






Severer Service Of Myself

Severer Service of myself
I-hastened to demand
To fill the awful Vacuum
Your life had left behind-
I worried Nature with my Wheels
When Hers had ceased to run-
When she had put away Her Work
My own had just begun.
I strove to weary Brain and Bone-
To harass to fatigue
The glittering Retinue of nerves-
Vitality to clog
To some dull comfort Those obtain
Who put a Head away
They knew the Hair to-
And forget the color of the Day-
Affliction would not be appeased-
The Darkness braced as firm
As all my stratagem had been
The Midnight to confirm-
No Drug for Consciousness-can be-
Alternative to die
Is Nature's only Pharmacy
For Being's Malady-






Sexton! My Master's Sleeping Here

Sexton! My Master's sleeping here.
Pray lead me to his bed!
I came to build the Bird's nest,
And sow the Early seed-
That when the snow creeps slowly
From off his chamber door-
Daisies point the way there-
And the Troubadour.






Shall I take thee, the Poet said
Shall I take thee, the Poet said
To the propounded word?
Be stationed with the Candidates
Till I have finer tried—
The Poet searched Philology
And when about to ring
For the suspended Candidate
There came unsummoned in—
That portion of the Vision
The Word applied to fill
Not unto nomination
The Cherubim reveal—






She Bore It Till The Simple Veins

She bore it till the simple veins
Traced azure on her hand-
Til pleading, round her quiet eyes
The purple Crayons stand.
Till Daffodils had come and gone
I cannot tell the sum,
And then she ceased to bear it-
And with the Saints sat down.
No more her patient figure
At twilight soft to meet-
No more her timid bonnet
Upon the village street-
But Crowns instead, and Courtiers-
And in the midst so fair,
Whose but her shy-immortal face
Of whom we're whispering here?






She could not live upon the Past
She could not live upon the Past
The Present did not know her
And so she sought this sweet at last
And nature gently owned her
The mother that has not a knell
for either Duke or Robin






She Dealt Her Pretty Words Like Blades

She dealt her pretty words like Blades-
How glittering they shone-
And every One unbared a Nerve
Or wantoned with a Bone-
She never deemed-she hurt-
That-is not Steel's Affair-
A vulgar grimace in the Flesh-
How ill the Creatures bear-
To Ache is human-not polite-
The Film upon the eye
Mortality's old Custom-
Just locking up-to Die.






She Died At Play

She died at play,
Gambolled away
Her lease of spotted hours,
Then sank as gaily as a Turn
Upon a Couch of flowers.
Her ghost strolled softly o'er the hill
Yesterday, and Today,
Her vestments as the silver fleece-
Her countenance as spray.






She Died—this Was The Way She Died

She died—this was the way she died.
And when her breath was done
Took up her simple wardrobe
And started for the sun.
Her little figure at the gate
The Angels must have spied,
Since I could never find her
Upon the mortal side.






She Dwelleth In The Ground

She dwelleth in the Ground-
Where Daffodils-abide-
Her Maker-Her Metropolis-
The Universe-Her Maid-
To fetch Her Grace-and Hue-
And Fairness-and Renown-
The Firmament's-To Pluck Her-
And fetch Her Thee-be mine-






She Hideth Her The Last

She hideth Her the last-
And is the first, to rise-
Her Night doth hardly recompense
The Closing of Her eyes-
She doth Her Purple Work-
And putteth Her away
In low Apartments in the Sod As worthily as We.
To imitate her life
As impotent would be
As make of Our imperfect Mints,
The Julep-of the Bee-






She Lay As If At Play

She lay as if at play
Her life had leaped away-
Intending to return-
But not so soon-
Her merry Arms, half dropt-
As if for lull of sport-
An instant had forgot-
The Trick to start-
Her dancing Eyes-ajar-
As if their Owner were
Still sparkling through
For fun-at you-
Her Morning at the door-
Devising, I am sure-
To force her sleep-
So light-so deep-






She Rose To His Requirement

She rose to His Requirement-dropt
The Playthings of Her Life
To take the honorable Work
Of Woman, and of Wife-
If ought She missed in Her new Day,
Of Amplitude, or Awe-
Or first Prospective-Or the Gold
In using, wear away,
It lay unmentioned-as the Sea
Develop Pearl, and Weed,
But only to Himself-be known
The Fathoms they abide-






She Slept Beneath A Tree

She slept beneath a tree-
Remembered but by me.
I touched her Cradle mute-
She recognized the foot-
Put on her carmine suit
And see!






She Sped As Petals Of A Rose

She sped as Petals of a Rose
Offended by the Wind-
A frail Aristocrat of Time
Indemnity to find-
Leaving on nature-a Default
As Cricket or as Bee-
But Andes in the Bosoms where
She had begun to lie-






She Staked Her Feathers—gained An Arc

She staked her Feathers—Gained an Arc—
Debated—Rose again—
This time—beyond the estimate
Of Envy, or of Men—
And now, among Circumference—
Her steady Boat be seen—
At home—among the Billows—As
The Bough where she was born—






She Sweeps With Many-Colored Brooms,
She sweeps with many-colored brooms,
And leaves the shreds behind;
Oh, housewife in the evening west,
Come back, and dust the pond!
You dropped a purple ravelling in,
You dropped an amber thread;
And now you've littered all the East
With duds of emerald!
And still she plies her spotted brooms,
And still the aprons fly,
Till brooms fade softly into stars -And then I come away.






She Went As Quiet As The Dew

She went as quiet as the Dew
From an Accustomed flower.
Not like the Dew, did she return
At the Accustomed hour!
She dropt as softly as a star
From out my summer's Eve-
Less skillful than Le Verriere
It's sorer to believe!






Shells From The Coast Mistaking

Shells from the Coast mistaking-
I cherished them for All-
Happening in After Ages
To entertain a Pearl-
Wherefore so late-I murmured-
My need of Thee-be done-
Therefore-the Pearl responded-
My Period begin






She's Happy, With A New Content

She's happy, with a new Content-
That feels to her-like Sacrament-
She's busy-with an altered Care-
As just apprenticed to the Air-
She's tearful-if she weep at all-
For blissful Causes-Most of all
That Heaven permit so meek as her-
To such a Fate-to Minister.






Should You But Fail At—sea

Should you but fail at—Sea—
In sight of me—
Or doomed lie—
Next Sun—to die—
Or rap—at Paradise—unheard
I'd harass God
Until he let you in!






Sic Transit Gloria Mundi

"Sic transit gloria mundi,"
"How doth the busy bee,"
"Dum vivimus vivamus,"
I stay mine enemy!
Oh "veni, vidi, vici!"
Oh caput cap-a-pie!
And oh "memento mori"
When I am far from thee!
Hurrah for Peter Parley!
Hurrah for Daniel Boone!
Three cheers, sir, for the gentleman
Who first observed the moon!
Peter, put up the sunshine;
Patti, arrange the stars;
Tell Luna, tea is waiting,
And call your brother Mars!
Put down the apple, Adam,
And come away with me,
So shalt thou have a pippin
From off my father's tree!
I climb the "Hill of Science,"
I "view the landscape o'er;"
Such transcendental prospect,
I ne'er beheld before!
Unto the Legislature
My country bids me go;
I'll take my india rubbers,
In case the wind should blow!
During my education,
It was announced to me





That gravitation, stumbling,
Fell from an apple tree!
The earth upon an axis
Was once supposed to turn,
By way of a gymnastic
In honor of the sun!
It was the brave Columbus,
A sailing o'er the tide,
Who notified the nations
Of where I would reside!
Mortality is fatal-
Gentility is fine,
Rascality, heroic,
Insolvency, sublime!
Our Fathers being weary,
Laid down on Bunker Hill;
And tho' full many a morning,
Yet they are sleeping still,-
The trumpet, sir, shall wake them,
In dreams I see them rise,
Each with a solemn musket
A marching to the skies!
A coward will remain, Sir,
Until the fight is done;
But an immortal hero
Will take his hat, and run!
Good bye, Sir, I am going;
My country calleth me;
Allow me, Sir, at parting,
To wipe my weeping e'e.
In token of our friendship
Accept this "Bonnie Doon,"
And when the hand that plucked it
Hath passed beyond the moon,





The memory of my ashes
Will consolation be;
Then, farewell, Tuscarora,
And farewell, Sir, to thee!






Silence is all we dread
Silence is all we dread.
There's Ransom in a Voice But Silence is Infinity.
Himself have not a face.






Size Circumscribes—it Has No Room

Size circumscribes—it has no room
For petty furniture—
The Giant tolerates no Gnat
For Ease of Gianture—
Repudiates it, all the more—
Because intrinsic size
Ignores the possibility
Of Calumnies—or Flies.






Sleep Is Supposed To Be

Sleep is supposed to be
By souls of sanity
The shutting of the eye.
Sleep is the station grand
Down which, on either hand
The hosts of witness stand!
Morn is supposed to be
By people of degree
The breaking of the Day.
Morning has not occurred!
That shall Aurora be-
East of Eternity-
One with the banner gay-
One in the red array-
That is the break of Day!






Smiling Back From Coronation

Smiling back from Coronation
May be Luxury-
On the Heads that started with us-
Being's Peasantry-
Recognizing in Procession
Ones We former knew-
When Ourselves were also dusty-
Centuries ago-
Had the Triumph no Conviction
Of how many be-
Stimulated-by the Contrast-
Unto Misery-






Snow Beneath Whose Chilly Softness

Snow beneath whose chilly softness
Some that never lay
Make their first Repose this Winter
I admonish Thee
Blanket Wealthier the Neighbor
We so new bestow
Than thine acclimated Creature
Wilt Thou, Austere Snow?






Snow Flakes
I counted till they danced so
Their slippers leaped the town,
And then I took a pencil
To note the rebels down.
And then they grew so jolly
I did resign the prig,
And ten of my once stately toes
Are marshalled for a jig!






So Bashful When I Spied Her!

So bashful when I spied her!
So pretty-so ashamed!
So hidden in her leaflets
Lest anybody find-
So breathless till I passed here-
So helpless when I turned
And bore her struggling, blushing,
Her simple haunts beyond!
For whom I robbed the Dingle-
For whom I betrayed the Dell-
Many, will doubtless ask me,
But I shall never tell!






So From The Mould

So from the mould
Scarlet and Gold
Many a Bulb will rise-
Hidden away, cunningly, From sagacious eyes.
So from Cocoon
Many a Worm
Leap so Highland gay,
Peasants like me,
Peasants like Thee
Gaze perplexedly!






So Glad We Are—a Stranger'D Deem

So glad we are—a Stranger'd deem
'Twas sorry, that we were—
For where the Holiday should be
There publishes a Tear—
Nor how Ourselves be justified—
Since Grief and Joy are done
So similar—An Optizan
Could not decide between—






So Has A Daisy Vanished

So has a Daisy vanished
From the fields today-
So tiptoed many a slipper
To Paradise away-
Oozed so in crimson bubbles
Day's departing tide-
Blooming-tripping-flowing
Are ye then with God?






So much of Heaven has gone from Earth
So much of Heaven has gone from Earth
That there must be a Heaven
If only to enclose the Saints
To Affidavit given.
The Missionary to the Mole
Must prove there is a Sky
Location doubtless he would plead
But what excuse have I?
Too much of Proof affronts Belief
The Turtle will not try
Unless you leave him - then return
And he has hauled away.






So Much Summer

So much Summer
Me for showing
Illegitimate-
Would a Smile's minute bestowing
Too exorbitant
To the Lady
With the Guinea
Look-if She should know
Crumb of Mine
A Robin's Larder
Would suffice to stow-






So Proud She Was To Die
So proud she was to die
It made us all ashamed
That what we cherished, so unknown
To her desire seemed.
So satisfied to go
Where none of us should be,
Immediately, that anguish stooped
Almost to jealousy.






So Set Its Sun In Thee

So set its Sun in Thee
What Day be dark to me-
What Distance-far-
So I the Ships may see
That touch-how seldomly-
Thy Shore?






So The Eyes Accost—and Sunder

So the Eyes accost—and sunder
In an Audience—
Stamped—occasionally—forever—
So may Countenance
Entertain—without addressing
Countenance of One
In a Neighboring Horizon—
Gone—as soon as known—






So Well That I Can Live Without

So well that I can live without-
I love thee-then How well is that?
As well as Jesus?
Prove it me
That He-loved Men-
As I-love thee-






Soil Of Flint, If Steady Tilled

Soil of Flint, if steady tilled-
Will refund by Hand-
Seed of Palm, by Libyan Sun
Fructified in Sand-






Some Days retired from the rest
Some Days retired from the rest
In soft distinction lie
The Day that a Companion came
Or was obliged to die






Some Keep The Sabbath Going To Church
Some keep the Sabbath going to Church -I keep it, staying at Home -With a Bobolink for a Chorister -And an Orchard, for a Dome -Some keep the Sabbath in Surplice -I just wear my Wings -And instead of tolling the Bell, for Church,
Our little Sexton -- sings.
God preaches, a noted Clergyman -And the sermon is never long,
So instead of getting to Heaven, at least -I'm going, all along.






Some Rainbow—coming From The Fair!

Some Rainbow—coming from the Fair!
Some Vision of the World Cashmere—
I confidently see!
Or else a Peacock's purple Train
Feather by feather—on the plain
Fritters itself away!
The dreamy Butterflies bestir!
Lethargic pools resume the whir
Of last year's sundered tune!
From some old Fortress on the sun
Baronial Bees—march—one by one—
In murmuring platoon!
The Robins stand as thick today
As flakes of snow stood yesterday—
On fence—and Roof—and Twig!
The Orchis binds her feather on
For her old lover - Don the Sun!
Revisiting the Bog!
Without Commander! Countless! Still!
The Regiments of Wood and Hill
In bright detachment stand!
Behold! Whose Multitudes are these?
The children of whose turbaned seas—
Or what Circassian Land?






Some Such Butterfly Be Seen

Some such Butterfly be seen
On Brazilian Pampas-
Just at noon-no later-Sweet-
Then-the License closes-
Some such Spice-express and pass-
Subject to Your Plucking-
As the Stars-You knew last Night-
Foreigners-This Morning-






Some Things That Fly There Be

Some things that fly there be-
Birds-Hours-the Bumblebee-
Of these no Elegy.
Some things that stay there be-
Grief-Hills-Eternity-
Nor this behooveth me.
There are that resting, rise.
Can I expound the skies?
How still the Riddle lies!






Some, Too Fragile For Winter Winds

Some, too fragile for winter winds
The thoughtful grave encloses-
Tenderly tucking them in from frost
Before their feet are cold.
Never the treasures in her nest
The cautious grave exposes,
Building where schoolboy dare not look,
And sportsman is not bold.
This covert have all the children
Early aged, and often cold,
Sparrow, unnoticed by the Father-
Lambs for whom time had not a fold.






Sometimes with the Heart
Sometimes with the Heart
Seldom with the Soul
Scarcer once with the Might
Few - love at all.






Soto! Explore Thyself!

Soto! Explore thyself!
Therein thyself shalt find
The "Undiscovered Continent"-
No Settler had the Mind.






Soul, Wilt Thou Toss Again?

Soul, Wilt thou toss again?
By just such a hazard
Hundreds have lost indeed-
But tens have won an all-
Angel's breathless ballot
Lingers to record thee-
Imps in eager Caucus
Raffle for my Soul!






South Winds Jostle Them

South Winds jostle them-
Bumblebees come-
Hover-hesitate-
Drink, and are gone-
Butterflies pause
On their passage Cashmere-
I-softly plucking,
Present them here!






Sown In Dishonor

"Sown in dishonor"!
Ah! Indeed!
May this "dishonor" be?
If I were half so fine myself
I'd notice nobody!
"Sown in corruption"!
Not so fast!
Apostle is askew!
Corinthians . . narrates
A Circumstance or two!






Speech is one symptom of Affection
Speech is one symptom of Affection
And Silence one The perfectest communication
Is heard of none Exists and its indorsement
Is had within Behold, said the Apostle,
Yet had not seen!






'Speech'—is A Prank Of Parliament

'Speech'—is a prank of Parliament—
'Tears'—is a trick of the nerve—
But the Heart with the heaviest freight on—
Doesn't—always—move —






Split The Lark-And You'Ll Find The Music

Split the Lark-and you'll find the Music-
Bulb after Bulb, in Silver rolled-
Scantilly dealt to the Summer Morning
Saved for your Ear when Lutes be old.
Loose the Flood-you shall find it patent-
Gush after Gush, reserved for you-
Scarlet Experiment! Sceptic Thomas!
Now, do you doubt that your Bird was true?






Spring comes on the World
Spring comes on the World 
I sight the Aprils 
Hueless to me until thou come
As, till the Bee
Blossoms stand negative,
Touched to Conditions
By a Hum.






Spring Is The Period

Spring is the Period
Express from God.
Among the other seasons
Himself abide,
But during March and April
None stir abroad
Without a cordial interview
With God.






STEP lightly on this narrow spot
STEP lightly on this narrow spot!
The broadest land that grows
Is not so ample as the breast
These emerald seams enclose.
Step lofty; for this name is told
As far as cannon dwell,
Or flag subsist, or fame export
Her deathless syllable.






Strong Draughts Of Their Refreshing Minds

Strong Draughts of Their Refreshing Minds
To drink-enables Mine
Through Desert or the Wilderness
As bore it Sealed Wine-
To go elastic-Or as One
The Camel's trait-attained-
How powerful the Stimulus
Of an Hermetic Mind-






Struck, Was I, Not Yet By Lightning

Struck, was I, not yet by Lightning-
Lightning-lets away
Power to perceive His Process
With Vitality.
Maimed-was I-yet not by Venture-
Stone of stolid Boy-
Nor a Sportsman's Peradventure-
Who mine Enemy?
Robbed-was I-intact to Bandit-
All my Mansion torn-
Sun-withdrawn to Recognition-
Furthest shining-done-
Yet was not the foe-of any-
Not the smallest Bird
In the nearest Orchard dwelling
Be of Me-afraid.
Most-I love the Cause that slew Me.
Often as I die
Its beloved Recognition
Holds a Sun on Me-
Best-at Setting-as is Nature's-
Neither witnessed Rise
Till the infinite Aurora
In the other's eyes.






Success Is Counted Sweetest

Success is counted sweetest
By those who ne'er succeed.
To comprehend a nectar
Requires sorest need.
Not one of all the purple Host
Who took the Flag today
Can tell the definition
So clear of Victory
As he defeated--dying-On whose forbidden ear
The distant strains of triumph
Burst agonized and clear!






Such Is The Force Of Happiness

Such is the Force of Happiness-
The Least-can lift a Ton
Assisted by its stimulus-
Who Misery-sustain-
No Sinew can afford-
The Cargo of Themselves-
Too infinite for Consciousness'
Slow capabilities.






Summer For Thee, Grant I May Be

Summer for thee, grant I may be
When Summer days are flown!
Thy music still, when Whipporwill
And Oriole-are done!
For thee to bloom, I'll skip the tomb
And row my blossoms o'er!
Pray gather me-
Anemone-
Thy flower-forevermore!






Summer Shower
A drop fell on the apple tree,Another on the roof;A half a dozen kissed the eaves,And made the gables laugh.A few went out to help the brook,That went to help the sea.Myself conjectured, Were they pearls,What necklaces could be!The dust replaced in hoisted roads,The birds jocoser sung;The sunshine threw his hat away,The orchards spangles hung.The breezes brought dejected lutes,And bathed them in the glee;The East put out a single flag,And signed the fete away.






Sunset At Night—is Natural

Sunset at Night—is natural—
But Sunset on the Dawn
Reverses Nature—Master—
So Midnight's—due—at Noon.
Eclipses be—predicted—
And Science bows them in—
But do one face us suddenly—
Jehovah's Watch—is wrong.






Superfluous Were The Sun

Superfluous were the Sun
When Excellence be dead
He were superfluous every Day
For every Day be said
That syllable whose Faith
Just saves it from Despair
And whose "I'll meet You" hesitates
If Love inquire "Where"?
Upon His dateless Fame
Our Periods may lie
As Stars that drop anonymous
From an abundant sky.






Surgeons Must Be Very Careful

Surgeons must be very careful
When they take the knife!
Underneath their fine incisions
Stirs the Culprit-Life!






Suspense—is Hostiler Than Death

Suspense—is Hostiler than Death—
Death—tho'soever Broad,
Is Just Death, and cannot increase—
Suspense—does not conclude—
But perishes—to live anew—
But just anew to die—
Annihilation—plated fresh
With Immortality—






Sweet Mountains—ye Tell Me No Lie

Sweet Mountains—Ye tell Me no lie—
Never deny Me—Never fly—
Those same unvarying Eyes
Turn on Me—when I fail—or feign,
Or take the Royal names in vain—
Their far—slow—Violet Gaze—
My Strong Madonnas—Cherish still—
The Wayward Nun—beneath the Hill—
Whose service—is to You—
Her latest Worship—When the Day
Fades from the Firmament away—
To lift Her Brows on You—






Sweet-Safe-Houses

Sweet-safe-Houses-
Glad-gay-Houses-
Sealed so stately tight-
Lids of Steel-on Lids of Marble-
Locking Bare feet out-
Brooks of Plush-in Banks of Satin
Not so softly fall
As the laughter-and the whisper-
From their People Pearl-
No Bald Death-affront their Parlors-
No Bold Sickness come
To deface their Stately Treasures-
Anguish-and the Tomb-
Hum by-in Muffled Coaches-
Lest they-wonder Why-
Any-for the Press of Smiling-
Interrupt-to die-






Sweet-You Forgot-But I Remembered

Sweet-You forgot-but I remembered
Every time-for Two-
So that the Sum be never hindered
Through Decay of You-
Say if I erred? Accuse my Farthings-
Blame the little Hand
Happy it be for You-a Beggar's-
Seeking More-to spend-
Just to be Rich-to waste my Guineas
On so Best a Heart-
Just to be Poor-for Barefoot Vision
You-Sweet-Shut me out-






Sweet, To Have Had Them Lost

Sweet, to have had them lost
For news that they be saved-
The nearer they departed Us
The nearer they, restored,
Shall stand to Our Right Hand-
Most precious and the Dead-
Next precious
Those that rose to go-
Then thought of Us, and stayed.






Sweet—you Forgot—but I Remembered

Sweet—You forgot—but I remembered
Every time—for Two—
So that the Sum be never hindered
Through Decay of You—
Say if I erred? Accuse my Farthings—
Blame the little Hand
Happy it be for You—a Beggar's—
Seeking More—to spend—
Just to be Rich—to waste my Guineas
On so Best a Heart—
Just to be Poor—for Barefoot Vision
You—Sweet—Shut me out—






T Was Just This Time Last Year I Died.

'T was just this time last year I died.
I know I heard the corn,
When I was carried by the farms,-It had the tassels on.
I thought how yellow it would look
When Richard went to mill;
And then I wanted to get out,
But something held my will.
I thought just how red apples wedged
The stubble's joints between;
And carts went stooping round the fields
To take the pumpkins in.
I wondered which would miss me least,
And when Thanksgiving came,
If father'd multiply the plates
To make an even sum.
And if my stocking hung too high,
Would it blur the Christmas glee,
That not a Santa Claus could reach
The altitude of me?
But this sort grieved myself, and so
I thought how it would be
When just this time, some perfect year,
Themselves should come to me.






Take Your Heaven Further On

Take your Heaven further on-
This-to Heaven divine Has gone-
Had You earlier blundered in
Possibly, e'en You had seen
An Eternity-put on-
Now-to ring a Door beyond
Is the utmost of Your Hand-
To the Skies-apologize-
Nearer to Your Courtesies
Than this Sufferer polite-
Dressed to meet You-
See-in White!






Taking Up The Fair Ideal

Taking up the fair Ideal,
Just to cast her down
When a fracture-we discover-
Or a splintered Crown-
Makes the Heavens portable-
And the Gods-a lie-
Doubtless-"Adam"-scowled at Eden-
For his perjury!
Cherishing-our pool Ideal-
Till in purer dress-
We behold her-glorified-
Comforts-search-like this-
Till the broken creatures-
We adored-for whole-
Stains-all washed-
Transfigured-mended-
Meet us-with a smile-






Talk With Prudence To A Beggar

Talk with prudence to a Beggar
Of "Potose," and the mines!
Reverently, to the Hungry
Of your viands, and your wines!
Cautious, hint to any Captive
You have passed enfranchised feet!
Anecdotes of air in Dungeons
Have sometimes proved deadly sweet!






Teach Him—when He Makes The Names

Teach Him—When He makes the names—
Such an one—to say—
On his babbling—Berry—lips—
As should sound—to me—
Were my Ear—as near his nest—
As my thought—today—
As should sound—
"Forbid us not"—
Some like "Emily."






Tell All The Truth

Tell all the truth but tell it slant,
Success in circuit lies,
Too bright for our infirm delight
The truth's superb surprise;
As lightning to the children eased
With explanation kind,
The truth must dazzle gradually
Or every man be blind.






Tell as a Marksman - were forgottenTell as a Marksman - were forgottenTell - this Day enduresRuddy as that coeval AppleThe Tradition bears -Fresh as Mankind that humble storyThough a statelier TaleGrown in the Repetition hoaryScarcely would prevail -Tell had a son - The ones that knew itNeed not linger here -Those who did not to Human NatureWill subscribe a Tear -Tell would not bare his HeadIn PresenceOf the Ducal Hat -Threatened for that with Death - by Gessler -Tyranny bethoughtMake of his only Boy a TargetThat surpasses Death -Stolid to Love's supreme entreatyNot forsook of Faith -Mercy of the Almighty begging -Tell his Arrow sent -God it is said replies in PersonWhen the cry is meant -




That After Horror—that 'Twas Us

That after Horror—that 'twas us—
That passed the mouldering Pier—
Just as the Granite Crumb let go—
Our Savior, by a Hair—
A second more, had dropped too deep
For Fisherman to plumb—
The very profile of the Thought
Puts Recollection numb—
The possibility—to pass
Without a Moment's Bell—
Into Conjecture's presence—
Is like a Face of Steel—
That suddenly looks into ours
With a metallic grin—
The Cordiality of Death—
Who drills his Welcome in—






That Distance Was Between Us

That Distance was between Us
That is not of Mile or Main-
The Will it is that situates-
Equator-never can-






That First Day, When You Praised Me, Sweet

That first Day, when you praised Me, Sweet,
And said that I was strong-
And could be mighty, if I liked-
That Day-the Days among-
Glows Central-like a Jewel
Between Diverging Golds-
The Minor One-that gleamed behind-
And Vaster-of the World's.






That I Did Always Love

That I did always love
I bring thee Proof
That till I loved
I never lived-Enough-
That I shall love alway-
I argue thee
That love is life-
And life hath Immortality-
This-dost thou doubt-Sweet-
Then have I
Nothing to show
But Calvary-






That Is Solemn We Have Ended

That is solemn we have ended
Be it but a Play
Or a Glee among the Garret
Or a Holiday
Or a leaving Home, or later,
Parting with a World
We have understood for better
Still to be explained.






The Admirations—and Contempts—of Time

The Admirations—and Contempts—of time—
Show justest—through an Open Tomb—
The Dying—as it were a Height
Reorganizes Estimate
And what We saw not
We distinguish clear—
And mostly—see not
What We saw before—
'Tis Compound Vision—
Light—enabling Light—
The Finite—furnished
With the Infinite—
Convex—and Concave Witness—
Back—toward Time—
And forward—
Toward the God of Him—






The Angle Of A Landscape

The Angle of a Landscape-
That every time I wake-
Between my Curtain and the Wall
Upon an ample Crack-
Like a Venetian-waiting-
Accosts my open eye-
Is just a Bough of Apples-
Held slanting, in the Sky-
The Pattern of a Chimney-
The Forehead of a Hill-
Sometimes-a Vane's Forefinger-
But that's-Occasional-
The Seasons-shift-my Picture-
Upon my Emerald Bough,
I wake-to find no-Emeralds-
Then-Diamonds-which the Snow
From Polar Caskets-fetched me-
The Chimney-and the Hill-
And just the Steeple's finger-
These-never stir at all-






The Bat Is Dun With Wrinkled Wings

THE BAT is dun with wrinkled wings
Like fallow article,
And not a song pervades his lips,
Or none perceptible.
His small umbrella, quaintly halved,
Describing in the air
An arc alike inscrutable,—
Elate philosopher!
Deputed from what firmament
Of what astute abode,
Empowered with what malevolence
Auspiciously withheld.
To his adroit Creator
Ascribe no less the praise;
Beneficent, believe me,
His eccentricities.






The Battle Fought Between The Soul

The Battle fought between the Soul
And No Man-is the One
Of all the Battles prevalent-
By far the Greater One-
No News of it is had abroad-
Its Bodiless Campaign
Establishes, and terminates-
Invisible-Unknown-
Nor History-record it-
As Legions of a Night
The Sunrise scatters-These endure-
Enact-and terminate-






The Battlefield

They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars,
Like petals from a rose,
When suddenly across the June
A wind with fingers goes.
They perished in the seamless grass, —
No eye could find the place;
But God on his repealless list
Can summon every face.






The Bee Is Not Afraid Of Me

The Bee is not afraid of me.
I know the Butterfly.
The pretty people in the Woods
Receive me cordially-
The Brooks laugh louder when I come-
The Breezes madder play;
Wherefore mine eye thy silver mists,
Wherefore, Oh Summer's Day?






The Beggar at the Door for Fame

The Beggar at the Door for Fame
Were easily supplied
But Bread is that Diviner thing
Disclosed to be denied






The Beggar Lad-Dies Early

The Beggar Lad-dies early-
It's Somewhat in the Cold-
And Somewhat in the Trudging feet-
And haply, in the World-
The Cruel-smiling-bowing World-
That took its Cambric Way-
Nor heard the timid cry for "Bread"-
"Sweet Lady-Charity"-
Among Redeemed Children
If Trudging feet may stand
The Barefoot time forgotten-so-
The Sleet-the bitter Wind-
The Childish Hands that teased for Pence
Lifted adoring-them-
To Him whom never Ragged-Coat
Did supplicate in vain-






The Bible Is An Antique Volume

The Bible is an antique Volume-
Written by faded men
At the suggestion of Holy Spectres-
Subjects-Bethlehem-
Eden-the ancient Homestead-
Satan-the Brigadier-
Judas-the Great Defaulter-
David-the Troubador-
Sin-a distinguished Precipice
Others must resist-
Boys that "believe" are very lonesome-
Other Boys are "lost"-
Had but the Tale a warbling Teller-
All the Boys would come-
Orpheus' Sermon captivated-
It did not condemn-






The Bird Must Sing To Earn The Crumb

The Bird must sing to earn the Crumb
What merit have the Tune
No Breakfast if it guaranty
The Rose content may bloom
To gain renown of Lady's Drawer
But if the Lady come
But once a Century, the Rose
Superfluous become-






The Birds Begun At Four O'Clock

The Birds begun at Four o'clock-
Their period for Dawn-
A Music numerous as space-
But neighboring as Noon-
I could not count their Force-
Their Voices did expend
As Brook by Brook bestows itself
To multiply the Pond.
Their Witnesses were not-
Except occasional man-
In homely industry arrayed-
To overtake the Morn-
Nor was it for applause-
That I could ascertain-
But independent Ecstasy
Of Deity and Men-
By Six, the Flood had done-
No Tumult there had been
Of Dressing, or Departure-
And yet the Band was gone-
The Sun engrossed the East-
The Day controlled the World-
The Miracle that introduced
Forgotten, as fulfilled.






The Birds Reported From The South

The Birds reported from the South-
A News express to Me-
A spicy Charge, My little Posts-
But I am deaf-Today-
The Flowers-appealed-a timid Throng-
I reinforced the Door-
Go blossom for the Bees-I said-
And trouble Me-no More-
The Summer Grace, for Notice strove-
Remote-Her best Array-
The Heart-to stimulate the Eye
Refused too utterly-
At length, a Mourner, like Myself,
She drew away austere-
Her frosts to ponder-then it was
I recollected Her-
She suffered Me, for I had mourned-
I offered Her no word-
My Witness-was the Crape I bore-
Her-Witness-was Her Dead-
Thenceforward-We-together dwelt-
I never questioned Her-
Our Contract
A Wiser Sympathy






The Black Berry—wears A Thorn In His Side

The Black Berry—wears a Thorn in his side—
But no Man heard Him cry—
He offers His Berry, just the same
To Partridge—and to Boy—
He sometimes holds upon the Fence—
Or struggles to a Tree—
Or clasps a Rock, with both His Hands—
But not for Sympathy—
We—tell a Hurt—to cool it—
This Mourner—to the Sky
A little further reaches—instead—
Brave Black Berry—






The Blue Jay

No brigadier throughout the year
So civic as the jay.
A neighbor and a warrior too,
With shrill felicity
Pursuing winds that censure us
A February day,
The brother of the universe
Was never blown away.
The snow and he are intimate;
I 've often seen them play
When heaven looked upon us all
With such severity,
I felt apology were due
To an insulted sky,
Whose pompous frown was nutriment
To their temerity.
The pillow of this daring head
Is pungent evergreens;
His larder — terse and militant —
Unknown, refreshing things;
His character a tonic,
His future a dispute;
Unfair an immortality
That leaves this neighbor out.






The Body Grows Without

The Body grows without-
The more convenient way-
That if the Spirit-like to hide
Its Temple stands, alway,
Ajar-secure-inviting-
It never did betray
The Soul that asked its shelter
In solemn honesty






The Brain Within It's Groove

The brain within its groove
Runs evenly and true;
But let a splinter swerve,
'T were easier for you
To put the water back
When floods have slit the hills,
And scooped a turnpike for themselves,
And blotted out the mills!






The Brain-Is Wider Than The Sky

The Brain-is wider than the Sky-
For-put them side by side-
The one the other will contain
With ease-and You-beside-
The Brain is deeper than the sea-
For-hold them-Blue to Blue-
The one the other will absorb-
As Sponges-Buckets-do-
The Brain is just the weight of God-
For-Heft them-Pound for Pound-
And they will differ-if they do-
As Syllable from Sound-






The Brain, Within Its Groove

The Brain, within its Groove
Runs evenly-and true-
But let a Splinter swerve-
'Twere easier for You-
To put a Current back-
When Floods have slit the Hills-
And scooped a Turnpike for Themselves-
And trodden out the Mills-






The Brain—is Wider Than The Sky

The Brain—is wider than the Sky—
For—put them side by side—
The one the other will contain
With ease—and You—beside—
The Brain is deeper than the sea—
For—hold them—Blue to Blue—
The one the other will absorb—
As Sponges—Buckets—do—
The Brain is just the weight of God—
For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—
And they will differ—if they do—
As Syllable from Sound—






The Bustle In A House

The bustle in a house
The morning after death
Is solemnest of industries
Enacted upon earth,-The sweeping up the heart,
And putting love away
We shall not want to use again
Until eternity.






The Bustle In A House

The bustle in a house
The morning after death
Is solemnest of industries
Enacted upon earth,The sweeping up the heart,
And putting love away
We shall not want to use again
Until eternity.






The Butterfly In Honored Dust

The Butterfly in honored Dust
Assuredly will lie
But none will pass the Catacomb
So chastened as the Fly 





The Butterfly Obtains

The butterfly obtains
But little sympathy
Though favorably mentioned
In Entomology Because he travels freely
And wears a proper coat
The circumspect are certain
That he is dissolute Had he the homely scutcheon
Of modest Industry
'Twere fitter certifying
For Immortality 





The Butterfly Upon The Sky

The Butterfly upon the Sky,
That doesn't know its Name
And hasn't any tax to pay
And hasn't any Home
Is just as high as you and I,
And higher, I believe,
So soar away and never sigh
And that's the way to grieve 





The Butterfly's Assumption Gown

The Butterfly's Assumption Gown
In Chrysoprase Apartments hung
This afternoon put on How condescending to descend
And be of Buttercups the friend
In a New England Town 





The Chariot

Because I could not stop for Death,
He kindly stopped for me;
The carriage held but just ourselves
And Immortality.
We slowly drove, he knew no haste,
And I had put away
My labor, and my leisure too,
For his civility.
We passed the school where children played,
Their lessons scarcely done;
We passed the fields of gazing grain,
We passed the setting sun.
We paused before a house that seemed
A swelling of the ground;
The roof was scarcely visible.
The cornice but a mound.
Since then 'tis centuries; but each
Feels shorter than the day
I first surmised the horses' heads
Were toward eternity.






The Chemical Conviction

The Chemical conviction
That Nought be lost
Enable in Disaster
My fractured Trust-
The Faces of the Atoms
If I shall see
How more the Finished Creatures
Departed me!






The Child's Faith Is New

The Child's faith is new-
Whole-like His Principle-
Wide-like the Sunrise
On fresh Eyes-
Never had a Doubt-
Laughs-at a Scruple-
Believes all sham
But Paradise-
Credits the World-
Deems His Dominion
Broadest of Sovereignties-
And Caesar-mean-
In the Comparison-
Baseless Emperor-
Ruler of Nought-
Yet swaying all-
Grown bye and bye
To hold mistaken
His pretty estimates
Of Prickly Things
He gains the skill
Sorrowful-as certain-
Men-to anticipate
Instead of Kings-






The Clover's simple Fame
The Clover's simple FameRemembered of the Cow -Is better than enameled RealmsOf notability.Renown perceives itselfAnd that degrades the Flower -The Daisy that has looked behindHas compromised its power -





The Color Of A Queen, Is This

The Color of a Queen, is this-
The Color of a Sun
At setting-this and Amber-
Beryl-and this, at Noon-
And when at night-Auroran widths
Fling suddenly on men-
'Tis this-and Witchcraft-nature keeps
A Rank-for Iodine-






The Color Of The Grave Is Green

The Color of the Grave is Green-
The Outer Grave-I mean-
You would not know it from the Field-
Except it own a Stone-
To help the fond-to find it-
Too infinite asleep
To stop and tell them where it is-
But just a Daisy-deep-
The Color of the Grave is white-
The outer Grave-I mean-
You would not know it from the Drifts-
In Winter-till the Sun-
Has furrowed out the Aisles-
Then-higher than the Land
The little Dwelling Houses rise
Where each-has left a friend-
The Color of the Grave within-
The Duplicate-I mean-
Not all the Snows could make it white-
Not all the Summers-Green-
You've seen the Color-maybe-
Upon a Bonnet bound-
When that you met it with before-
The Ferret-cannot find-






The Court Is Far Away

The Court is far away-
No Umpire-have I-
My Sovereign is offended-
To gain his grace-I'd die!
I'll seek his royal feet-
I'll say-Remember-King-
Thou shalt-thyself-one day-a Child-
Implore a larger-thing-
That Empire-is of Czars-
As small-they say-as I-
Grant me-that day-the royalty-
To intercede-for Thee-






The Cricket Sang,

The cricket sang,
And set the sun,
And workmen finished, one by one,
Their seam the day upon.
The low grass loaded with the dew,
The twilight stood as strangers do
With hat in hand, polite and new,
To stay as if, or go.
A vastness, as a neighbor, came,-A wisdom without face or name,
A peace, as hemispheres at home,-And so the night became.






The Daisy Follows Soft The Sun

The Daisy follows soft the Sun-
And when his golden walk is done-
Sits shyly at his feet-
He-waking-finds the flower there-
Wherefore-Marauder-art thou here?
Because, Sir, love is sweet!
We are the Flower-Thou the Sun!
Forgive us, if as days decline-
We nearer steal to Thee!
Enamored of the parting West-
The peace-the flight-the Amethyst-
Night's possibility!






The Day Came Slow

The day came slow, till five o'clock,
Then sprang before the hills,
Like hindered rubies, or the light,
A sudden musket spills.
The purple could not keep the east.
The sunrise shook from fold.
Like breadths of topaz, packed a night,
The lady just unrolled.
The happy winds their timbrels took;
The birds in docile rows,
Arranged themselves around their prince.
(The wind is prince of those.)
The orchard sparkled like a Jew,--How mighty 'twas to stay,
A guest in this stupendous place,
The parlor of the day.






The Day That I Was Crowned

The Day that I was crowned
Was like the other Days-
Until the Coronation came-
And then-'twas Otherwise-
As Carbon in the Coal
And Carbon in the Gem
Are One-and yet the former
Were dull for Diadem-
I rose, and all was plain-
But when the Day declined
Myself and It, in Majesty
Were equally-adorned-
The Grace that I-was chose-
To Me-surpassed the Crown
That was the Witness for the Grace-
'Twas even that 'twas Mine-






The Day Undressed-Herself

The Day undressed-Herself-
Her Garter-was of Gold-
Her Petticoat-of Purple plain-
Her Dimities-as old
Exactly-as the World-
And yet the newest Star-
Enrolled upon the Hemisphere
Be wrinkled-much as Her-
Too near to God-to pray-
Too near to Heaven-to fear-
The Lady of the Occident
Retired without a care-
Her Candle so expire
The flickering be seen
On Ball of Mast in Bosporus-
And Dome-and Window Pane-






The Definition Of Beauty Is

The Definition of Beauty is
That Definition is none-
Of Heaven, easing Analysis,
Since Heaven and He are one.






The Devil - had he fidelity

The Devil - had he fidelity
Would be the best friend Because he has ability But Devils cannot mend Perfidy is the virtue
That would but he resign
The Devil - without question
Were thoroughly divine






The Difference Between Despair

The difference between Despair
And Fear-is like the One
Between the instant of a Wreck
And when the Wreck has been-
The Mind is smooth-no Motion-
Contented as the Eye
Upon the Forehead of a Bust-
That knows-it cannot see-






The Doomed—regard The Sunrise

The Doomed—regard the Sunrise
With different Delight—
Because—when next it burns abroad
They doubt to witness it—
The Man—to die—tomorrow—
Harks for the Meadow Bird—
Because its Music stirs the Axe
That clamors for his head—
Joyful—to whom the Sunrise
Precedes Enamored—Day—
Joyful—for whom the Meadow Bird
Has ought but Elegy!






The Drop, That Wrestles In The Sea

The Drop, that wrestles in the Sea-
Forgets her own locality-
As I-toward Thee-
She knows herself an incense small-
Yet small-she sighs-if All-is All-
How larger-be?
The Ocean-smiles-at her Conceit-
But she, forgetting Amphitrite-
Pleads-"Me"?






The Dust Behind I Strove To Join

The Dust behind I strove to join
Unto the Disk before-
But Sequence ravelled out of Sound
Like Balls upon a Floor-






The Duties Of The Wind Are Few

The duties of the Wind are few,
To cast the ships, at Sea,
Establish March, the Floods escort,
And usher Liberty.
The pleasures of the Wind are broad,
To dwell Extent among,
Remain, or wander,
Speculate, or Forests entertain.
The kinsmen of the Wind are Peaks
Azof - the Equinox,
Also with Bird and Asteroid
A bowing intercourse.
The limitations of the Wind
Do he exist, or die,
Too wise he seems for Wakelessness,
However, know not i.






The Dying Need But Little, Dear,--
The dying need but little, dear,--A glass of water's all,A flower's unobtrusive faceTo punctuate the wall,A fan, perhaps, a friend's regret,And certainly that oneNo color in the rainbowPerceives when you are gone.






The Earth Has Many Keys

The earth has many keys,
Where melody is not
Is the unknown peninsula.
Beauty is nature's fact.
But witness for her land,
And witness for her sea,
The cricket is her utmost
Of elegy to me.






The Face I Carry With Me—last

The face I carry with me—last—
When I go out of Time—
To take my Rank—by—in the West—
That face—will just be thine—
I'll hand it to the Angel—
That—Sir—was my Degree—
In Kingdoms—you have heard the Raised—
Refer to—possibly.
He'll take it—scan it—step aside—
Return—with such a crown
As Gabriel—never capered at—
And beg me put it on—
And then—he'll turn me round and round—
To an admiring sky—
As one that bore her Master's name—
Sufficient Royalty!






The Face we choose to miss

The Face we choose to miss 
Be it but for a Day
As absent as a Hundred Years,
When it has rode away.






The Feet Of People Walking Home

The feet of people walking home
With gayer sandals go-
The Crocus- til she rises
The Vassal of the snow-
The lips at Hallelujah
Long years of practise bore
Til bye and bye these Bargemen
Walked singing on the shore.
Pearls are the Diver's farthings
Extorted from the Sea-
Pinions- the Seraph's wagon
Pedestrian once- as we-
Night is the morning's Canvas
Larceny- legacy-
Death, but our rapt attention
To Immortality.
My figures fail to tell me
How far the Village lies-
Whose peasants are the Angels-
Whose Cantons dot the skies-
My Classics veil their faces-
My faith that Dark adores-
Which from its solemn abbeys
Such ressurection pours.






The Fingers Of The Light

The Fingers of the Light
Tapped soft upon the Town
With "I am great and cannot wait
So therefore let me in."
"You're soon," the Town replied,
"My Faces are asleep-
But swear, and I will let you by,
You will not wake them up."
The easy Guest complied
But once within the Town
The transport of His Countenance
Awakened Maid and Man
The Neighbor in the Pool
Upon His Hip elate
Made loud obeisance and the Gnat
Held up His Cup for Light.






The First Day That I Was A Life

The first Day that I was a Life
I recollect it-How still-
That last Day that I was a Life
I recollect it-as well-
'Twas stiller-though the first
Was still-
"Twas empty-but the first
Was full-
This-was my finallest Occasion-
But then
My tenderer Experiment
Toward Men-
"Which choose I"?
That-I cannot say-
"Which choose They"?
Question Memory!






The First Day's Night Had Come

The first Day's Night had come-
And grateful that a thing
So terrible-had been endured-
I told my Soul to sing-
She said her Strings were snapt-
Her Bow-to Atoms blown-
And so to mend her-gave me work
Until another Morn-
And then-a Day as huge
As Yesterdays in pairs,
Unrolled its horror in my face-
Until it blocked my eyes-
My Brain-begun to laugh-
I mumbled-like a fool-
And tho' 'tis Years ago-that Day-
My Brain keeps giggling-still.
And Something's odd-within-
That person that I was-
And this One-do not feel the same-
Could it be Madness-this?






The Flower Must Not Blame The Bee

The Flower must not blame the Bee-
That seeketh his felicity
Too often at her door-
But teach the Footman from Vevay-
Mistress is "not at home"-to say-
To people-any more!






The Future—never Spoke

The Future—never spoke—
Nor will He—like the Dumb—
Reveal by sign—a syllable
Of His Profound To Come—
But when the News be ripe—
Presents it—in the Act—
Forestalling Preparation—
Escape—or Substitute—
Indifference to Him—
The Dower—as the Doom—
His Office—but to execute
Fate's—Telegram—to Him—






The Gentian Weaves Her Fringes

The Gentian weaves her fringes-
The Maple's loom is red-
My departing blossoms
Obviate parade.
A brief, but patient illness-
An hour to prepare,
And one below this morning
Is where the angels are-
It was a short procession,
The Bobolink was there-
An aged Bee addressed us-
And then we knelt in prayer-
We trust that she was willing-
We ask that we may be.
Summer-Sister-Seraph!
Let us go with thee!
In the name of the Bee-
And of the Butterfly-
And of the Breeze-Amen!






The Going From A World We Know

The going from a world we know
To one a wonder still
Is like the child's adversity
Whose vista is a hill,
Behind the hill is sorcery
And everything unknown,
But will the secret compensate
For climbing it alone?






The Good Will Of A Flower

The good Will of a Flower
The Man who would possess
Must first present
Certificate
Of minted Holiness.






The Grace—myself—might Not Obtain

The Grace—Myself—might not obtain—
Confer upon My flower—
Refracted but a Countenance—
For I—inhabit Her—






The Grass So Little Has To Do

The Grass so little has to do –
A Sphere of simple Green –
With only Butterflies to brood
And Bees to entertain –
And stir all day to pretty Tunes
The Breezes fetch along –
And hold the Sunshine in its lap
And bow to everything –
And thread the Dews, all night, like Pearls –
And make itself so fine
A Duchess were too common
For such a noticing –
And even when it dies – to pass
In Odors so divine –
Like Lowly spices, lain to sleep –
Or Spikenards, perishing –
And then, in Sovereign Barns to dwell –
And dream the Days away,
The Grass so little has to do
I wish I were a Hay –






The grave my little cottage is

The grave my little cottage is,
Where 'Keeping house' for thee
I make my parlor orderly
And lay the marble tea.
For two divided, briefly,
A cycle, it may be,
Till everlasting life unite
In strong society.






The Guest Is Gold And Crimson

The Guest is gold and crimson-
An Opal guest and gray-
Of Ermine is his doublet-
His Capuchin gay-
He reaches town at nightfall-
He stops at every door-
Who looks for him at morning
I pray him too-explore
The Lark's pure territory-
Or the Lapwing's shore!






The Hallowing Of Pain

The hallowing of Pain
Like hallowing of Heaven,
Obtains at a corporeal cost-
The Summit is not given
To Him who strives severe
At middle of the Hill-
But He who has achieved the Top-
All-is the price of All-






The Heart Asks Pleasure First

The heart asks pleasure first
And then, excuse from painAnd then, those little anodynes
That deaden suffering;
And then, to go to sleep;
And then, if it should be
The will of its Inquisitor,
The liberty to die.






The Heart Has Narrow Banks

The Heart has narrow Banks
It measures like the Sea
In mighty-unremitting Bass
And Blue Monotony
Till Hurricane bisect
And as itself discerns
Its sufficient Area
The Heart convulsive learns
That Calm is but a Wall
Of unattempted Gauze
An instant's Push demolishes
A Questioning-dissolves.






The Heaven Vests For Each

The Heaven vests for Each
In that small Deity
It craved the grace to worship
Some bashful Summer's Day-
Half shrinking from the Glory
It importuned to see
Till these faint Tabernacles drop
In full Eternity-
How imminent the Venture-
As one should sue a Star-
For His mean sake to leave the Row
And entertain Despair-
A Clemency so common-
We almost cease to fear-
Enabling the minutest-
And furthest-to adore-






The Hills erect their Purple Heads

The Hills erect their Purple Heads
The Rivers lean to see
Yet Man has not of all the Throng
A Curiosity.






The Hills in Purple syllables

The Hills in Purple syllables
The Day's Adventures tell
To little Groups of Continents
Just going Home from School.






The Himmaleh Was Known To Stoop

The Himmaleh was known to stoop
Unto the Daisy low-
Transported with Compassion
That such a Doll should grow
Where Tent by Tent-Her Universe
Hung out its Flags of Snow-






The Hollows Round His Eager Eyes

The Hollows round His eager Eyes
Were Pages where to read
Pathetic Histories-although
Himself had not complained.
Biography to All who passed
Of Unobtrusive Pain
Except for the italic Face
Endured, unhelped-unknown.






The inundation of the Spring

The inundation of the Spring
Enlarges every soul It sweeps the tenement away
But leaves the Water whole 
In which the soul at first estranged 
Seeks faintly for its shore
But acclimated - pines no more
For that Peninsula 





The Judge Is Like The Owl

The Judge is like the Owl-
I've heard my Father tell-
And Owls do build in Oaks-
So here's an Amber Sill-
That slanted in my Path-
When going to the Barn-
And if it serve You for a House-
Itself is not in vain-
About the price-'tis small-
I only ask a Tune
At Midnight-Let the Owl select
His favorite Refrain.






The Juggler's Hat Her Country Is

The Juggler's Hat her Country is-
The Mountain Gorse-the Bee's!






The Lady Feeds Her Little Bird

The Lady feeds Her little Bird
At rarer intervals-
The little Bird would not dissent
But meekly recognize
The Gulf between the Hand and Her
And crumbless and afar
And fainting, on Her yellow Knee
Fall softly, and adore-






The Lamp Burns Sure—within

The Lamp burns sure—within—
Tho' Serfs—supply the Oil—
It matters not the busy Wick—
At her phosphoric toil!
The Slave—forgets—to fill—
The Lamp—burns golden—on—
Unconscious that the oil is out—
As that the Slave—is gone.






The Last Night That She Lived

The last Night that She lived
It was a Common Night
Except the Dying-this to Us
Made Nature different
We noticed smallest things-
Things overlooked before
By this great light upon our Minds
Italicized-as 'twere.
As We went out and in
Between Her final Room
And Rooms where Those to be alive
Tomorrow were, a Blame
That Others could exist
While She must finish quite
A Jealousy for Her arose
So nearly infinite-
We waited while She passed-
It was a narrow time-
Too jostled were Our Souls to speak
At length the notice came.
She mentioned, and forgot-
Then lightly as a Reed
Bent to the Water, struggled scarce-
Consented, and was dead-
And We-We placed the Hair-
And drew the Head erect-
And then an awful leisure was
Belief to regulate-






The Leaves Like Women Interchange

The Leaves like Women interchange
Exclusive Confidence-
Somewhat of nods and somewhat
Portentous inference.
The Parties in both cases
Enjoining secrecy-
Inviolable compact
To notoriety.






The Loneliness One Dare Not Sound

The Loneliness One dare not sound-
And would as soon surmise
As in its Grave go plumbing
To ascertain the size-
The Loneliness whose worst alarm
Is lest itself should see-
And perish from before itself
For just a scrutiny-
The Horror not to be surveyed-
But skirted in the Dark-
With Consciousness suspended-
And Being under Lock-
I fear me this-is Loneliness-
The Maker of the soul
Its Caverns and its Corridors
Illuminate-or seal-






The Lonesome For They Know Not What

The lonesome for they know not What-
The Eastern Exiles-be-
Who strayed beyond the Amber line
Some madder Holiday-
And ever since-the purple Moat
They strive to climb-in vain-
As Birds-that tumble from the clouds
Do fumble at the strain-
The Blessed Ether-taught them-
Some Transatlantic Morn-
When Heaven-was too common-to miss-
Too sure-to dote upon!






The Love A Life Can Show Below

The Love a Life can show Below
Is but a filament, I know,
Of that diviner thing
That faints upon the face of Noon-
And smites the Tinder in the Sun-
And hinders Gabriel's Wing-
'Tis this-in Music-hints and sways-
And far abroad on Summer days-
Distils uncertain pain-
'Tis this enamors in the East-
And tints the Transit in the West
With harrowing Iodine-
'Tis this-invites-appalls-endows-
Flits-glimmers-proves-dissolves-
Returns-suggests-convicts-enchants-
Then-flings in Paradise-






The Luxury To Apprehend

The Luxury to apprehend
The Luxury 'twould be
To look at Thee a single time
An Epicure of Me
In whatsoever Presence makes
Till for a further Food
I scarcely recollect to starve
So first am I supplied-
The Luxury to meditate
The Luxury it was
To banguet on thy Countenance
A Sumptuousness bestows
On plainer Days, whose Table far
As Certainty can see
Is laden with a single Crumb
The Consciousness of Thee.






The Malay—took The Pearl

The Malay—took the Pearl—
Not—I—the Earl—
I—feared the Sea—too much
Unsanctified—to touch—
Praying that I might be
Worthy—the Destiny—
The Swarthy fellow swam—
And bore my Jewel—Home—
Home to the Hut! What lot
Had I—the Jewel—got—
Borne on a Dusky Breasty—
I had not deemed a Vest
Of Amber—fit—
The Negro never knew
I—wooed it—too—
To gain, or be undone—
Alike to Him—One—






The Manner Of Its Death

The Manner of its Death
When Certain it must die-
'Tis deemed a privilege to choose-
'Twas Major Andre's Way-
When Choice of Life-is past-
There yet remains a Love
Its little Fate to stipulate-
How small in those who live-
The Miracle to tease
With Bable of the styles-
How "they are Dying mostly-now"-
And Customs at "St. James"!






The Martyr Poets—did Not Tell

The Martyr Poets—did not tell—
But wrought their Pang in syllable—
That when their mortal name be numb—
Their mortal fate—encourage Some—
The Martyr Painters—never spoke—
Bequeathing—rather—to their Work—
That when their conscious fingers cease—
Some seek in Art—the Art of Peace—






The Missing All—prevented Me

The Missing All—prevented Me
From missing minor Things.
If nothing larger than a World's
Departure from a Hinge—
Or Sun's extinction, be observed—
'Twas not so large that I
Could lift my Forehead from my work
For Curiosity.






The Months Have Ends—the Years—a Knot

The Months have ends—the Years—a knot—
No Power can untie
To stretch a little further
A Skein of Misery—
The Earth lays back these tired lives
In her mysterious Drawers—
Too tenderly, that any doubt
An ultimate Repose—
The manner of the Children—
Who weary of the Day—
Themself—the noisy Plaything
They cannot put away—






The Moon Was But A Chin Of Gold

The Moon was but a Chin of Gold
A Night or two ago-
And now she turns Her perfect Face
Upon the World below-
Her Forehead is of Amplest Blonde-
Her Cheek-a Beryl hewn-
Her Eye unto the Summer Dew
The likest I have known-
Her Lips of Amber never part-
But what must be the smile
Upon Her Friend she could confer
Were such Her Silver Will-
And what a privilege to be
But the remotest Star-
For Certainty She take Her Way
Beside Your Palace Door-
Her Bonnet is the Firmament-
The Universe-Her Shoe-
The Stars-the Trinkets at Her Belt-
Her Dimities-of Blue-






The Morning After Woe

The Morning after Woe-
'Tis frequently the Way-
Surpasses all that rose before-
For utter Jubilee-
As Nature did not care-
And piled her Blossoms on-
And further to parade a Joy
Her Victim stared upon-
The Birds declaim their Tunes-
Pronouncing every word
Like Hammers-Did they know they fell
Like Litanies of Lead-
On here and there-a creature-
They'd modify the Glee
To fit some Crucifixal Clef-
Some Key of Calvary-






The Morns Are Meeker Than They WereThe morns are meeker than they were-The nuts are getting brown-The berry's cheek is plumper-The Rose is out of town.The Maple wears a gayer scarf-The field a scarlet gown-Lest I should be old fashionedI'll put a trinket on.






The Mountain Sat Upon The Plain

The Mountain sat upon the Plain
In his tremendous Chair-
His observation omnifold,
His inquest, everywhere-
The Seasons played around his knees
Like Children round a sire-
Grandfather of the Days is He
Of Dawn, the Ancestor-






The Mountains—grow Unnoticed

The Mountains—grow unnoticed—
Their Purple figures rise
Without attempt—Exhaustion—
Assistance—or Applause—
In Their Eternal Faces
The Sun—with just delight
Looks long—and last—and golden—
For fellowship—at night—






The Murmur Of A Bee

The Murmur of a Bee
A Witchcraft-yieldeth me-
If any ask me why-
'Twere easier to die-
Than tell-
The Red upon the Hill
Taketh away my will-
If anybody sneer-
Take care-for God is here-
That's all.
The Breaking of the Day
Addeth to my Degree-
If any ask me how-
Artist-who drew me so-
Must tell!






The Mushroom is the Elf of Plants
The Mushroom is the Elf of Plants -At Evening, it is notAt Morning, in a Truffled HutIt stop opon a SpotAs if it tarried alwaysAnd yet it's whole CareerIs shorter than a Snake's Delay -And fleeter than a Tare -'Tis Vegetation's Juggler -The Germ of Alibi -Doth like a Bubble antedateAnd like a Bubble, hie -I feel as if the Grass was pleasedTo have it intermit -This surreptitious ScionOf Summer's circumspect.Had Nature any supple FaceOr could she one contemn -Had Nature an Apostate -That Mushroom - it is Him!






The Mystery Of Pain

Pain has an element of blank;
It cannot recollect
When it began, or if there were
A day when it was not.
It has no future but itself,
Its infinite realms contain
Its past, enlightened to perceive
New periods of pain.






The Name—of It—is 'Autumn'

The name—of it—is 'Autumn'—
The hue—of it—is Blood—
An Artery—upon the Hill—
A Vein—along the Road—
Great Globules—in the Alleys—
And Oh, the Shower of Stain—
When Winds—upset the Basin—
And spill the Scarlet Rain—
It sprinkles Bonnets—far below—
It gathers ruddy Pools—
Then—eddies like a Rose—away—
Upon Vermilion Wheels—






The Nearest Dream Recedes, Unrealized.

The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.
The heaven we chase
Like the June bee
Before the school-boy
Invites the race;
Stoops to an easy clover
Dips--evades--teases--deploys;
Then to the royal clouds
Lifts his light pinnace
Heedless of the boy
Staring, bewildered, at the mocking sky.
Homesick for steadfast honey,
Ah! the bee flies not
That brews that rare variety.






The Night Was Wide, And Furnished Scant

The Night was wide, and furnished scant
With but a single Star-
That often as a Cloud it met-
Blew out itself-for fear-
The Wind pursued the little Bush-
And drove away the Leaves
November left-then clambered up
And fretted in the Eaves-
No Squirrel went abroad-
A Dog's belated feet
Like intermittent Plush, he heard
Adown the empty Street-
To feel if Blinds be fast-
And closer to the fire-
Her little Rocking Chair to draw-
And shiver for the Poor-
The Housewife's gentle Task-
How pleasanter-said she
Unto the Sofa opposite-
The Sleet-than May, no Thee-






The Notice that is called the SpringThe Notice that is called the SpringIs but a month from here -Put up my Heart thy Hoary workAnd take a Rosy Chair.Not any House the Flowers keep -The Birds enamor Care -Our salary the longest DayIs nothing but a Bier.






The One Who Could Repeat The Summer Day

The One who could repeat the Summer day-
Were greater than itself-though He
Minutest of Mankind should be-
And He-could reproduce the Sun-
At period of going down-
The Lingering-and the Stain-I mean-
When Orient have been outgrown
And Occident-become Unknown-
His Name-remain-






The Only Ghost I Ever Saw

The only ghost I ever saw
Was dressed in mechlin, --so;
He wore no sandal on his foot,
And stepped like flakes of snow.
His gait was soundless, like the bird,
But rapid, like the roe;
His fashions quaint, mosaic,
Or, haply, mistletoe.

Hi conversation seldom,
His laughter like the breeze
That dies away in dimples
Among the pensive trees.
Our interview was transient, -Of me, himself was shy;
And God forbid I look behind
Since that appalling day!






The Only News I Know

The Only News I know
Is Bulletins all Day
From Immortality.
The Only Shows I see-
Tomorrow and Today-
Perchance Eternity-
The Only One I meet
Is God-The Only Street-
Existence-This traversed
If Other News there be-
Or Admirable Show-
I'll tell it You-






The Outer—from The Inner

The Outer—from the Inner
Derives its Magnitude—
'Tis Duke, or Dwarf, according
As is the Central Mood—
The fine—unvarying Axis
That regulates the Wheel—
Though Spokes—spin—more conspicuous
And fling a dust—the while.
The Inner—paints the Outer—
The Brush without the Hand—
Its Picture publishes—precise—
As is the inner Brand—
On fine—Arterial Canvas—
A Cheek—perchance a Brow—
The Star's whole Secret—in the Lake—
Eyes were not meant to know.






The Pedigree Of Honey

The pedigree of honey
Does not concern the bee;
A clover, any time, to him
Is aristocracy.






The Poets Light But Lamps

The Poets light but Lamps-
Themselves-go out-
The Wicks they stimulate-
If vital Light
Inhere as do the Suns-
Each Age a Lens
Disseminating their
Circumference-






The Power To Be True To You

The power to be true to You,
Until upon my face
The Judgment push his Picture-
Presumptuous of Your Place-
Of This-Could Man deprive Me-
Himself-the Heaven excel-
Whose invitation-Yours reduced
Until it showed too small-






The Province Of The Saved

The Province of the Saved
Should be the Art-To save-
Through Skill obtained in Themselves-
The Science of the Grave
No Man can understand
But He that hath endured
The Dissolution-in Himself-
That Man-be qualified
To qualify Despair
To Those who failing new-
Mistake Defeat for Death-Each time-
Till acclimated-to-






The Railway Train

I like to see it lap the miles,
And lick the valleys up,
And stop to feed itself at tanks;
And then, prodigious, step
Around a pile of mountains,
And, supercilious, peer
In shanties by the sides of roads;
And then a quarry pare
To fit its sides, and crawl between,
Complaining all the while
In horrid, hooting stanza;
Then chase itself down the hill
And neigh like Boanerges;
Then, punctual as a star,
Stop - docile and omnipotent At its own stable door.






The Rainbow Never Tells Me

The rainbow never tells me
That gust and storm are by,
Yet is she more convincing
Than Philosophy.
My flowers turn from Forums-
Yet eloquent declare
What Cato couldn't prove me
Except the birds were here!






The Red—blaze—is The Morning

The Red—Blaze—is the Morning—
The Violet—is Noon—
The Yellow—Day—is falling—
And after that—is none—
But Miles of Sparks—at Evening—
Reveal the Width that burned—
The Territory Argent—that
Never yet—consumed—






The reticent volcano keeps

The reticent volcano keeps
His never slumbering plan Confided are his projects pink
To no precarious man.
If nature will not tell the tale
Jehovah told to her
Can human nature not survive
Without a listener?
Admonished by her buckled lips
Let every babbler be
The only secret people keep
Is Immortality.






The Road Was Lit With Moon And Star
The Road was lit with Moon and star -The Trees were bright and still -Descried I - by the distant LightA Traveller on a Hill -To magic PerpendicularsAscending, though Terrene -Unknown his shimmering ultimate -But he indorsed the sheen -





The Robin For The Crumb

The Robin for the Crumb
Returns no syllable
But long records the Lady's name
In Silver Chronicle.






The Robin Is The One

The Robin is the One
That interrupt the Morn
With hurried-few-express Reports
When March is scarcely on-
The Robin is the One
That overflow the Noon
With her cherubic quantity-
An April but begun-
The Robin is the One
That speechless from her Nest
Submit that Home-and Certainty
And Sanctity, are best






The Robin's My Criterion For Tune

The Robin's my Criterion for Tune-
Because I grow-where Robins do-
But, were I Cuckoo born-
I'd swear by him-
The ode familiar-rules the Noon-
The Buttercup's, my Whim for Bloom-
Because, we're Orchard sprung-
But, were I Britain born,
I'd Daisies spurn-
None but the Nut-October fit-
Because, through dropping it,
The Seasons flit-I'm taught-
Without the Snow's Tableau
Winter, were lie-to me-
Because I see-New Englandly-
The Queen, discerns like me-
Provincially-






The Rose Did Caper On Her Cheek

The Rose did caper on her cheek-
Her Bodice rose and fell-
Her pretty speech-like drunken men-
Did stagger pitiful-
Her fingers fumbled at her work-
Her needle would not go-
What ailed so smart a little Maid-
It puzzled me to know-
Till opposite-I spied a cheek
That bore another Rose-
Just opposite-Another speech
That like the Drunkard goes-
A Vest that like her Bodice, danced-
To the immortal tune-
Till those two troubled-little Clocks
Ticked softly into one.






The Savior Must Have Been A Docile Gentleman
()
The Savior must have been
A docile Gentleman—
To come so far so cold a Day
For little Fellowmen—
The Road to Bethlehem
Since He and I were Boys
Was leveled, but for that ‘twould be
A rugged Billion Miles—






The Sea Said 'Come' To The Brook
The Sea said 'Come' to the Brook -The Brook said 'Let me grow' -The Sea said 'Then you will be a Sea -I want a Brook - Come now'!The Sea said 'Go' to the Sea -The Sea said 'I am heYou cherished' - 'Learned Waters -Wisdom is stale - to Me'






The Service Without Hope

The Service without Hope-
Is tenderest, I think-
Because 'tis unsustained
By stint-Rewarded Work-
Has impetus of Gain-
And impetus of Goal-
There is no Diligence like that
That knows not an Until-






The Show Is Not The Show,

The show is not the show,
But they that go.
Menagerie to me
My neighbor be.
Fair play-Both went to see.






The Skies Can'T Keep Their Secret!

The Skies can't keep their secret!
They tell it to the Hills-
The Hills just tell the Orchards-
And they-the Daffodils!
A Bird-by chance-that goes that way-
Soft overhears the whole-
If I should bribe the little Bird-
Who knows but she would tell?
I think I won't-however-
It's finer-not to know-
If Summer were an Axiom-
What sorcery had Snow?
So keep your secret-Father!
I would not-if I could,
Know what the Sapphire Fellows, do,
In your new-fashioned world!






The Sky Is Low, The Clouds Are Mean,

The sky is low, the clouds are mean,
A travelling flake of snow
Across a barn or through a rut
Debates if it will go.
A narrow wind complains all day
How some one treated him;
Nature, like us, is sometimes caught
Without her diadem.






The Snow That Never Drifts

The Snow that never drifts The transient, fragrant snow
That comes a single time a Year
Is softly driving now So thorough in the Tree
At night beneath the star
That it was February's Foot
Experience would swear Like Winter as a Face
We stern and former knew
Repaired of all but Loneliness
By Nature's Alibit Were every storm so spice
The Value could not be We buy with contrast - Pang is good
As near as memory 





The Soul Has Bandaged Moments

The Soul has Bandaged moments-
When too appalled to stir-
She feels some ghastly Fright come up
And stop to look at her-
Salute her-with long fingers-
Caress her freezing hair-
Sip, Goblin, from the very lips
The Lover-hovered-o'er-
Unworthy, that a thought so mean
Accost a Theme-so-fair-
The soul has moments of Escape-
When bursting all the doors-
She dances like a Bomb, abroad,
And swings upon the Hours,
As do the Bee-delirious borne-
Long Dungeoned from his Rose-
Touch Liberty-then know no more,
But Noon, and Paradise-
The Soul's retaken moments-
When, Felon led along,
With shackles on the plumed feet,
And staples, in the Song,
The Horror welcomes her, again,
These, are not brayed of Tongue-






The Soul Selects Her Own SocietyThe Soul selects her own Society --Then -- shuts the Door --To her divine Majority --Present no more --Unmoved -- she notes the Chariots -- pausing --At her low Gate --Unmoved -- an Emperor be kneelingUpon her Mat --I've known her -- from an ample nation --Choose One --Then -- close the Valves of her attention --Like Stone --




The Soul That Hath A Guest

The Soul that hath a Guest
Doth seldom go abroad-
Diviner Crowd at Home-
Obliterate the need-
And Courtesy forbid
A Host's departure when
Upon Himself be visiting
The Emperor of Men-






The Soul Unto Itself

The Soul unto itselfIs an imperial friend --Or the most agonizing Spy --An Enemy -- could send --Secure against its own --No treason it can fear --Itself -- its Sovereign -- of itselfThe Soul should stand in Awe --




The Soul's Distinct Connection

The Soul's distinct connection
With immortality
Is best disclosed by Danger
Or quick Calamity-
As Lightning on a Landscape
Exhibits Sheets of Place-
Not yet suspected-but for Flash-
And Click-and Suddenness.






The Soul's Superior Instants

The Soul's Superior instants
Occur to Her-alone-
When friend-and Earth's occasion
Have infinite withdrawn-
Or She-Herself-ascended
To too remote a Height
For lower Recognition
Than Her Omnipotent-
This Mortal Abolition
Is seldom-but as fair
As Apparition-subject
To Autocratic Air-
Eternity's disclosure
To favorites-a few-
Of the Colossal substance
Of Immortality






The Spider as an Artist

The Spider as an ArtistHas never been employed -Though his surpassing MeritIs freely certifiedBy every Broom and BridgetThroughout a Christian Land -Neglected Son of GeniusI take thee by the Hand -





The spider holds a Silver Ball
In unperceived Hands--And dancing softly to HimselfHis Yarn of Pearl--unwinds--He plies from Nought to Nought--In unsubstantial Trade--Supplants our Tapestries with His--In half the period--An Hour to rear supremeHis Continents of Light--Then dangle from the Housewife's Broom--His Boundaries--forgot--





The Spirit Is The Conscious Ear

The Spirit is the Conscious Ear.
We actually Hear
When We inspect-that's audible-
That is admitted-Here-
For other Services-as Sound-
There hangs a smaller Ear
Outside the Castle-that Contain-
The other-only-Hear-






The Spry Arms Of The Wind

The spry Arms of the Wind
If I could crawl between
I have an errand imminent
To an adjoining Zone I should not care to stop
My Process is not long
The Wind could wait without the Gate
Or stroll the Town among.
To ascertain the House
And is the soul at Home
And hold the Wick of mine to it
To light, and then return 





The Sun And Moon Must Make Their Haste

The Sun and Moon must make their haste-
The Stars express around
For in the Zones of Paradise
The Lord alone is burned-
His Eye, it is the East and West-
The North and South when He
Do concentrate His Countenance
Like Glow Worms, flee away-
Oh Poor and Far-
Oh Hindred Eye
That hunted for the Day-
The Lord a Candle entertains
Entirely for Thee-






The Sun Is Gay Or Stark

The Sun is gay or stark
According to our Deed.
If Merry, He is merrier-
If eager for the Dead
Or an expended Day
He helped to make too bright
His mighty pleasure suits Us not
It magnifies our Freight






The Sun Kept Setting—setting—still

The Sun kept setting—setting—still
No Hue of Afternoon—
Upon the Village I perceived
From House to House 'twas Noon—
The Dusk kept dropping—dropping—still
No Dew upon the Grass—
But only on my Forehead stopped—
And wandered in my Face—
My Feet kept drowsing—drowsing—still
My fingers were awake—
Yet why so little sound—Myself
Unto my Seeming—make?
How well I knew the Light before—
I could see it now—
'Tis Dying—I am doing—but
I'm not afraid to know—






The Sun Kept Stooping—stooping

The Sun kept stooping—stooping—low!
The Hills to meet him rose!
On his side, what Transaction!
On their side, what Repose!
Deeper and deeper grew the stain
Upon the window pane—
Thicker and thicker stood the feet
Until the Tyrian
Was crowded dense with Armies—
So gay, so Brigadier—
That I felt martial stirrings
Who once the Cockade wore—
Charged from my chimney corner—
But Nobody was there!






The Sun—just Touched The Morning

The Sun—just touched the Morning—
The Morning—Happy thing—
Supposed that He had come to dwell—
And Life would all be Spring!
She felt herself supremer—
A Raised—Ethereal Thing!
Henceforth—for Her—What Holiday!
Meanwhile—Her wheeling King—
Trailed—slow—along the Orchards—
His haughty—spangled Hems—
Leaving a new necessity!
The want of Diadems!
The Morning—fluttered—staggered—
Felt feebly—for Her Crown—
Her unanointed forehead—
Henceforth—Her only One!






The Sunrise Runs For Both

The Sunrise runs for Both-
The East-Her Purple Troth
Keeps with the Hill-
The Noon unwinds Her Blue
Till One Breadth cover Two-
Remotest-still-
Nor does the Night forget
A Lamp for Each-to set-
Wicks wide away-
The North-Her blazing Sign
Erects in Iodine-
Till Both-can see-
The Midnight's Dusky Arms
Clasp Hemispheres, and Homes
And so
Upon Her Bosom-One-
And One upon Her Hem-
Both lie-






The Sunset Stopped On Cottages

The Sunset stopped on Cottages
Where Sunset hence must be
For treason not of His, but Life's,
Gone Westerly, Today-
The Sunset stopped on Cottages
Where Morning just begun-
What difference, after all, Thou mak'st
Thou supercilious Sun?






The Sweetest Heresy Received

The sweetest Heresy received
That Man and Woman know-
Each Other's Convert-
Though the Faith accommodate but Two-
The Churches are so frequent-
The Ritual-so small-
The Grace so unavoidable-
To fail-is Infidel-






The Test Of Love—is Death

The Test of Love—is Death—
Our Lord—"so loved"—it saith—
What Largest Lover—hath
Another—doth—
If smaller Patience—be—
Through less Infinity—
If Bravo, sometimes swerve—
Through fainter Nerve—
Accept its Most—
And overlook—the Dust—
Last—Least—
The Cross'—Request—






The Thought Beneath So Slight A Film

The thought beneath so slight a filmIs more distincly seen, --As laces just reveal the surge,Or mists the Apennine.






The Tint I Cannot Take—is Best

The Tint I cannot take—is best—
The Color too remote
That I could show it in Bazaar—
A Guinea at a sight—
The fine—impalpable Array—
That swaggers on the eye
Like Cleopatra's Company—
Repeated—in the sky—
The Moments of Dominion
That happen on the Soul
And leave it with a Discontent
Too exquisite—to tell—
The eager look—on Landscapes—
As if they just repressed
Some Secret—that was pushing
Like Chariots—in the Vest—
The Pleading of the Summer—
That other Prank—of Snow—
That Cushions Mystery with Tulle,
For fear the Squirrels—know.
Their Graspless manners—mock us—
Until the Cheated Eye
Shuts arrogantly—in the Grave—
Another way—to see—






The Trees Like Tassels—hit—and Swung

The Trees like Tassels—hit—and swung—
There seemed to rise a Tune
From Miniature Creatures
Accompanying the Sun—
Far Psalteries of Summer—
Enamoring the Ear
They never yet did satisfy—
Remotest—when most fair
The Sun shone whole at intervals—
Then Half—then utter hid—
As if Himself were optional
And had Estates of Cloud
Sufficient to enfold Him
Eternally from view—
Except it were a whim of His
To let the Orchards grow—
A Bird sat careless on the fence—
One gossipped in the Lane
On silver matters charmed a Snake
Just winding round a Stone—
Bright Flowers slit a Calyx
And soared upon a Stem
Like Hindered Flags—Sweet hoisted—
With Spices—in the Hem—
'Twas more—I cannot mention—
How mean—to those that see—
Vandyke's Delineation
Of Nature's—Summer Day!






The Truth—is Stirless

The Truth—is stirless—
Other force—may be presumed to move—
This—then—is best for confidence—
When oldest Cedars swerve—
And Oaks untwist their fists—
And Mountains—feeble—lean—
How excellent a Body, that
Stands without a Bone—
How vigorous a Force
That holds without a Prop—
Truth stays Herself—and every man
That trusts Her—boldly up—






The Veins Of Other Flowers

The Veins of other Flowers
The Scarlet Flowers are
Till Nature leisure has for Terms
As "Branch," and "Jugular."
We pass, and she abides.
We conjugate Her Skill
While She creates and federates
Without a syllable.






The Way I Read A Letter's—this

The Way I read a Letter's—this—
'Tis first—I lock the Door—
And push it with my fingers—next—
For transport it be sure—
And then I go the furthest off
To counteract a knock—
Then draw my little Letter forth
And slowly pick the lock—
Then—glancing narrow, at the Wall—
And narrow at the floor
For firm Conviction of a Mouse
Not exorcised before—
Peruse how infinite I am
To no one that You—know—
And sigh for lack of Heaven—but not
The Heaven God bestow—






The White Heat

Dare you see a Soul at the White Heat?
Then crouch within the door -Red -- is the Fire's common tint -But when the vivid Ore
Has vanquished Flame's conditions,
It quivers from the Forge
Without a color, but the light
Of unanointed Blaze.
Least Village has its Blacksmith
Whose Anvil's even ring
Stands symbol for the finer Forge
That soundless tugs -- within -Re[f]ining these impatient Ores
With Hammer, and with Blaze
Untile the Designated Light
Repudiate the Forge






The Whole Of It Came Not At Once

The Whole of it came not at once-
'Twas Murder by degrees-
A Thrust-and then for Life a chance-
The Bliss to cauterize-
The Cat reprieves the Mouse
She eases from her teeth
Just long enough for Hope to tease-
Then mashes it to death-
'Tis Life's award-to die-
Contenteder if once-
Than dying half-then rallying
For consciouser Eclipse-






The Wind Begun To Knead The Grass

[first version]
The Wind begun to knead the Grass-
As Women do a Dough-
He flung a Hand full at the Plain-
A Hand full at the Sky-
The Leaves unhooked themselves from Trees-
And started all abroad-
The Dust did scoop itself like Hands-
And throw away the Road-
The Wagons-quickened on the Street-
The Thunders gossiped low-
The Lightning showed a Yellow Head-
And then a livid Toe-
The Birds put up the Bars to Nests-
The Cattle flung to Barns-
Then came one drop of Giant Rain-
And then, as if the Hands
That held the Dams-had parted hold-
The Waters Wrecked the Sky-
But overlooked my Father's House-
Just Quartering a Tree-
[second version]
The Wind begun to rock the Grass
With threatening Tunes and low-
He threw a Menace at the Earth-
A Menace at the Sky.
The Leaves unhooked themselves from Trees-
And started all abroad
The Dust did scoop itself like Hands
And threw away the Road.
The Wagons quickened on the Streets
The Thunder hurried slow-The Lightning showed a Yellow Beak
And then a livid Claw.
The Birds put up the Bars to Nests-
The Cattle fled to Barns-
There came one drop of Giant Rain
And then as if the Hands
That held the Dams had parted hold
The Waters Wrecked the Sky,
But overlooked my Father's House-
Just quartering a Tree-
The Wind Begun To Rock The Grass
The wind begun to rock the grass
With threatening tunes and low,-He flung a menace at the earth,
A menace at the sky.
The leaves unhooked themselves from trees
And started all abroad;
The dust did scoop itself like hands
And throw away the road.
The wagons quickened on the streets,
The thunder hurried slow;
The lightning showed a yellow beak,
And then a livid claw.
The birds put up the bars to nests,
The cattle fled to barns;
There came one drop of giant rain,
And then, as if the hands
That held the dams had parted hold,
The waters wrecked the sky
But overlooked my father's house,
lust quartering a tree.






The Wind Didn'T Come From The Orchard—today

The Wind didn't come from the Orchard—today—
Further than that—
Nor stop to play with the Hay—
Nor joggle a Hat—
He's a transitive fellow—very—
Rely on that—
If He leave a Bur at the door
We know He has climbed a Fir—
But the Fir is Where—Declare—
Were you ever there?
If He brings Odors of Clovers—
And that is His business—not Ours—
Then He has been with the Mowers—
Whetting away the Hours
To sweet pauses of Hay—
His Way—of a June Day—
If He fling Sand, and Pebble—
Little Boys Hats—and Stubble—
With an occasional Steeple—
And a hoarse "Get out of the way, I say,"
Who'd be the fool to stay?
Would you—Say—
Would you be the fool to stay?






The Wind Tapped Like A Tired Man,

The wind tapped like a tired man,
And like a host, 'Come in,'
I boldly answered; entered then
My residence within
A rapid, footless guest,
To offer whom a chair
Were as impossible as hand
A sofa to the air.
No bone had he to bind him,
His speech was like the push
Of numerous humming-birds at once
From a superior bush.
His countenance a billow,
His fingers, if he pass,
Let go a music, as of tunes
Blown tremulous in glass.
He visited, still flitting;
Then, like a timid man,
Again he tapped- 't was flurriedlyAnd I became alone.






The Wind Took Up The Northern Things

The Wind took up the Northern ThingsAnd piled them in the south -Then gave the East unto the WestAnd opening his mouthThe four Divisions of the EarthDid make as to devourWhile everything to corners slunkBehind the awful power -The Wind - unto his Chambers wentAnd nature ventured out -Her subjects scattered into placeHer systems ranged aboutAgain the smoke from Dwellings roseThe Day abroad was heard -How intimate, a Tempest pastThe Transport of the Bird -





The Winters Are So Short

The Winters are so short-
I'm hardly justified
In sending all the Birds away-
And moving into Pod-
Myself-for scarcely settled-
The Phoebes have begun-
And then-it's time to strike my Tent-
And open House-again-
It's mostly, interruptions-
My Summer-is despoiled-
Because there was a Winter-once-
And al the Cattle-starved-
And so there was a Deluge-
And swept the World away-
But Ararat's a Legend-now-
And no one credits Noah-






The Woodpecker

His bill an auger is,
His head, a cap and frill.
He laboreth at every tree,-A worm his utmost goal.






The Words The Happy Say

The words the happy say
Are paltry melody
But those the silent feel
Are beautiful—






The Work Of Her That Went

The Work of Her that went,
The Toil of Fellows done In Ovens green our Mother bakes,
By Fires of the Sun.






The World-Feels Dusty

The World-feels Dusty
When We stop to Die-
We want the Dew-then-
Honors-taste dry-
Flags-vex a Dying face-
But the least Fan
Stirred by a friend's Hand-
Cools-like the Rain-
Mine be the Ministry
When they Thirst comes-
And Hybla Balms-
Dews of Thessaly, to fetch-







The World—stands—solemner—to Me
The World—stands—solemner—to me—Since I was wed—to Him—A modesty befits the soulThat bears another's—name—A doubt—if it be fair—indeed—To wear that perfect—pearl—The Man—upon the Woman—binds—To clasp her soul—for all—A prayer, that it more angel—prove—A whiter Gift—within—To that munificence, that chose—So unadorned—a Queen—A Gratitude—that such be true—It had esteemed the Dream—Too beautiful—for Shape to prove—Or posture—to redeem!






The World—stands—solemner—to Me

The World—stands—solemner—to me—
Since I was wed—to Him—
A modesty befits the soul
That bears another's—name—
A doubt—if it be fair—indeed—
To wear that perfect—pearl—
The Man—upon the Woman—binds—
To clasp her soul—for all—
A prayer, that it more angel—prove—
A whiter Gift—within—
To that munificence, that chose—
So unadorned—a Queen—
A Gratitude—that such be true—
It had esteemed the Dream—
Too beautiful—for Shape to prove—
Or posture—to redeem!






The Zeroes—taught Us—phosphorous

The Zeroes—taught us—Phosphorous—
We learned to like the Fire
By playing Glaciers—when a Boy—
And Tinder—guessed—by power
Of Opposite—to balance Odd—
If White—a Red—must be!
Paralysis—our Primer—dumb—
Unto Vitality!






Their Height In Heaven Comforts Not

Their Height in Heaven comforts not-
Their Glory-nought to me-
'Twas best imperfect-as it was-
I'm finite-I can't see-
The House of Supposition-
The Glimmering Frontier that
Skirts the Acres of Perhaps-
To Me-shows insecure-
The Wealth I had-contented me-
If 'twas a meaner size-
Then I had counted it until
It pleased my narrow Eyes-
Better than larger values-
That show however true-
This timid life of Evidence
Keeps pleading-"I don't know."






There Are Two Ripenings—one—of Sight

There are two Ripenings—one—of sight—
Whose forces Spheric wind
Until the Velvet product
Drop spicy to the ground—
A homelier maturing—
A process in the Bur—
That teeth of Frosts alone disclose
In far October Air.






There Came A Day At Summer's Full

There came a Day at Summer's full,
Entirely for me-
I thought that such were for the Saints,
Where Resurrections-be-
The Sun, as common, went abroad,
The flowers, accustomed, blew,
As if no soul the solstice passed
That maketh all things new-
The time was scarce profaned, by speech-
The symbol of a word
Was needless, as at Sacrament,
The Wardrobe-of our Lord-
Each was to each The Sealed Church,
Permitted to commune this-time-
Lest we too awkward show
At Supper of the Lamb.
The Hours slid fast-as Hours will,
Clutched tight, by greedy hands-
So faces on two Decks, look back,
Bound to opposing lands-
And so when all the time had leaked,
Without external sound
Each bound the Other's Crucifix-
We gave no other Bond-
Sufficient troth, that we shall rise-
Deposed-at length, the Grave-
To that new Marriage,
Justified-through Calvaries of Love-






There Came A Wind Like A Bugle
There cam a Wind like a Bugle -It quivered through the GrassAnd a Green Chill upon the HeatSo ominous did passWe barred the Windows and the DoorsAs from an Emerald Ghost -The Doom's electric MoccasinThe very instant passed -On a strange Mob of panting TreesAnd Fences fled awayAnd Rivers where the Houses ranThose looked that lived - that Day -The Bell within the steeple wildThe flying tidings told -How much can comeAnd much can go,And yet abide the World!






There Is A Finished Feeling

There is a finished feeling
Experienced at Graves-
A leisure of the Future-
A Wilderness of Size.
By Death's bold Exhibition
Preciser what we are
And the Eternal function
Enabled to infer.






There Is A Flower That Bees Prefer

There is a flower that Bees prefer-
And Butterflies-desire-
To gain the Purple Democrat
The Humming Bird-aspire-
And Whatsoever Insect pass-
A Honey bear away
Proportioned to his several dearth
And her-capacity-
Her face be rounder than the Moon
And ruddier than the Gown
Or Orchis in the Pasture-
Or Rhododendron-worn-
She doth not wait for June-
Before the World be Green-
Her sturdy little Countenance
Against the Wind-be seen-
Contending with the Grass-
Near Kinsman to Herself-
For Privilege of Sod and Sun-
Sweet Litigants for Life-
And when the Hills be full-
And newer fashions blow-
Doth not retract a single spice
For pang of jealousy-
Her Public-be the Noon-
Her Providence-the Sun-
Her Progress-by the Bee-proclaimed-
In sovereign-Swerveless Tune-
The Bravest-of the Host-
Surrendering-the last-
Nor even of Defeat-aware-
What cancelled by the Frost-






There Is A June When Corn Is Cut

There is a June when Corn is cut
And Roses in the Seed-
A Summer briefer than the first
But tenderer indeed
As should a Face supposed the Grave's
Emerge a single Noon
In the Vermilion that it wore
Affect us, and return-
Two Seasons, it is said, exist-
The Summer of the Just,
And this of Ours, diversified
With Prospect, and with Frost-
May not our Second with its First
So infinite compare
That We but recollect the one
The other to prefer?






There Is A Languor Of The Life

There is a Languor of the Life
More imminent than Pain-
'Tis Pain's Successor-When the Soul
Has suffered all it can-
A Drowsiness-diffuses-
A Dimness like a Fog
Envelops Consciousness-
As Mists-obliterate a Crag.
The Surgeon-does not blanch-at pain
His Habit-is severe-
But tell him that it ceased to feel-
The Creature lying there-
And he will tell you-skill is late-
A Mightier than He-
Has ministered before Him-
There's no Vitality.






There Is A Morn By Men Unseen

There is a morn by men unseen-
Whose maids upon remoter green
Keep their Seraphic May-
And all day long, with dance and game,
And gambol I may never name-
Employ their holiday.
Here to light measure, move the feet
Which walk no more the village street-
Nor by the wood are found-
Here are the birds that sought the sun
When last year's distaff idle hung
And summer's brows were bound.
Ne'er saw I such a wondrous scene-
Ne'er such a ring on such a green-
Nor so serene array-
As if the stars some summer night
Should swing their cups of Chrysolite-
And revel till the day-
Like thee to dance-like thee to sing-
People upon the mystic green-
I ask, each new May Morn.
I wait thy far, fantastic bells-
Unto the different dawn!






There Is A Pain—so Utter

There is a pain—so utter—
It swallows substance up—
Then covers the Abyss with Trance—
So Memory can step
Around—across—upon it—
As one within a Swoon—
Goes safely—where an open eye—
Would drop Him—Bone by Bone.






There Is A Shame Of Nobleness

There is a Shame of Nobleness-
Confronting Sudden Pelf-
A finer Shame of Ecstasy-
Convicted of Itself-
A best Disgrace-a Brave Man feels-
Acknowledged-of the Brave-
One More-"Ye Blessed"-to be told-
But that's-Behind the Grave-






There Is A Word

There is a word
Which bears a sword
Can pierce an armed man-
It hurls its barbed syllables
And is mute again-
But where it fell
The saved will tell
On patriotic day,
Some epauletted Brother
Gave his breath away.
Wherever runs the breathless sun-
Wherever roams the day-
There is its noiseless onset-
There is its victory!
Behold the keenest marksman!
The most accomplished shot!
Time's sublimest target
Is a soul "forgot!"






There Is An Arid Pleasure

There is an arid Pleasure-
As different from Joy-
As Frost is different from Dew-
Like element-are they-
Yet one-rejoices Flowers-
And one-the Flowers abhor-
The finest Honey-curdled-
Is worthless-to the Bee-






There is another Loneliness

There is another Loneliness
That many die without Not want of friend occasions it
Or circumstances of Lot
But nature, sometimes, sometimes thought
And whoso it befall
Is richer than could be revealed
By mortal numeral






There Is Another Sky

There is another sky,
Ever serene and fair,
And there is another sunshine,
Though it be darkness there;
Never mind faded forests, Austin,
Never mind silent fields—
Here is a little forest,
Whose leaf is ever green;
Here is a brighter garden,
Where not a frost has been;
In its unfading flowers
I hear the bright bee hum:
Prithee, my brother,
Into my garden come!






There Is No Frigate Like A Book

There is no frigate like a book
To take us lands away,
Nor any coursers like a page
Of prancing poetry.
This traverse may the poorest take
Without oppress of toll;
How frugal is the chariot
That bears a human soul!






There is no Silence in the Earth

There is no Silence in the Earth - so silent
As that endured
Which uttered, would discourage Nature
And haunt the World.






There's A Certain Slant Of Light

There's a certain Slant of light,Winter Afternoons--That oppresses, like the HeftOf Cathedral Tunes--Heavenly Hurt, it gives us--We can find no scar,But internal difference,Where the Meanings, are--None may teach it--Any--'Tis the Seal Despair--An imperial afflictionSent us of the air--When it comes, the Landscape listens--Shadows--hold their breath--When it goes, 'tis like the DistanceOn the look of Death--





There's Been A Death In The Opposite House

There's been a death in the opposite house
As lately as to-day.
I know it by the numb look
Such houses have alway.
The neighbors rustle in and out,
The doctor drives away.
A window opens like a pod,
Abrupt, mechanically;
Somebody flings a mattress out,-The children hurry by;
They wonder if It died on that,-I used to when a boy.
The minister goes stiffly in
As if the house were his,
And he owned all the mourners now,
And little boys besides;
And then the milliner, and the man
Of the appalling trade,
To take the measure of the house.
There'll be that dark parade
Of tassels and of coaches soon;
It's easy as a sign,-The intuition of the news
In just a country town.






There's Something Quieter Than Sleep

There's something quieter than sleep
Within this inner room!
It wears a sprig upon its breast-
And will not tell its name.
Some touch it, and some kiss it-
Some chafe its idle hand-
It has a simple gravity
I do not understand!
I would not weep if I were they-
How rude in one to sob!
Might scare the quiet fairy
Back to her native wood!
While simple-hearted neighbors
Chat of the "Early dead"-
We-prone to periphrasis
Remark that Birds have fled!






These Are The Days When Birds Come Back

These are the days when Birds come back-
A very few-a Bird or two-
To take a backward look.
These are the days when skies resume
The old-old sophistries of June-
A blue and gold mistake.
Oh fraud that cannot cheat the Bee-
Almost thy plausibility
Induces my belief.
Till ranks of seeds their witness bear-
And softly thro' the altered air
Hurries a timid leaf.
Oh Sacrament of summer days,
Oh Last Communion in the Haze-
Permit a child to join.
Thy sacred emblems to partake-
They consecrated bread to take
And thine immortal wine!






These Fevered Days - to take them to the ForestWhere Waters cool around the mosses crawl -And shade is all that devastates the stillnessSeems it sometimes this would be all -





These Tested Our Horizon

These tested Our Horizon-
Then disappeared
As Birds before achieving
A Latitude.
Our Retrospection of Them
A fixed Delight,
But our Anticipation
A Dice-a Doubt-






These—saw Visions

These—saw Visions—
Latch them softly—
These—held Dimples—
Smooth them slow—
This—addressed departing accents—
Quick—Sweet Mouth—to miss thee so—
This—We stroked—
Unnumbered Satin—
These—we held among our own—
Fingers of the Slim Aurora—
Not so arrogant—this Noon—
These—adjust—that ran to meet us—
Pearl—for Stocking—Pearl for Shoe—
Paradise—the only Palace
Fit for Her reception—now—






They Ask But Our Delight

They ask but our Delight-
The Darlings of the Soil
And grant us all their Countenance
For a penurious smile.






They Called Me To The Window, For

They called me to the Window, for
" 'Twas Sunset"-Some one said-
I only saw a Sapphire Farm-
And just a Single Herd-
Of Opal Cattle-feeding far
Upon so vain a Hill-
As even while I looked-dissolved-
Nor Cattle were-nor Soil-
But in their stead-a Sea-displayed-
And Ships-of such a size
As Crew of Mountains-could afford-
And Decks-to seat the skies-
This-too-the Showman rubbed away-
And when I looked again-
Nor Farm-nor Opal Herd-was there-
Nor Mediterranean-






They Dropped Like Flakes

They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars,Like petals from a rose,When suddenly across the luneA wind with fingers goes.They perished in the seamless grass,--No eye could find the place;But God on his repealless listCan summon every face






They Have A Little Odor—that To Me

They have a little Odor—that to me
Is metre—nay—'tis melody—
And spiciest at fading—indicate—
A Habit—of a Laureate—






'They Have Not Chosen Me,' He Said

'They have not chosen me,' he said,
'But I have chosen them!'
Brave—Broken hearted statement—
Uttered in Bethlehem!
I could not have told it,
But since Jesus dared—
Sovereign! Know a Daisy
They dishonor shared!






They Leave Us With The Infinite

They leave us with the Infinite.
But He-is not a man-
His fingers are the size of fists-
His fists, the size of men-
And whom he foundeth, with his Arm
As Himmaleh, shall stand-
Gibraltar's Everlasting Shoe
Poised lightly on his Hand,
So trust him, Comrade-
You for you, and I, for you and me
Eternity is ample,
And quick enough, if true.






They Put Us Far Apart

They put Us far apart-
As separate as Sea
And Her unsown Peninsula-
We signified "These see"-
They took away our Eyes-
They thwarted Us with Guns-
"I see Thee" each responded straight
Through Telegraphic Signs-
With Dungeons-They devised-
But through their thickest skill-
And their opaquest Adamant-
Our Souls saw-just as well-
They summoned Us to die-
With sweet alacrity
We stood upon our stapled feet-
Condemned-but just-to see-
Permission to recant-
Permission to forget-
We turned our backs upon the Sun
For perjury of that-
Not Either-noticed Death-
Of Paradise-aware-
Each other's Face-was all the Disc
Each other's setting-saw-






They Say That 'Time Assuages,

They say that 'time assuages,'-Time never did assuage;
An actual suffering strengthens,
As sinews do, with age.
Time is a test of trouble,
But not a remedy.
If such it prove, it prove too
There was no malady.






They Shut Me Up In Prose
They shut me up in Prose --As when a little GirlThey put me in the Closet --Because they liked me "still" --Still! Could themself have peeped --And seen my Brain -- go round --They might as wise have lodged a BirdFor Treason -- in the Pound --Himself has but to willAnd easy as a StarAbolish his Captivity --And laugh -- No more have I --




They Won'T Frown Always—some Sweet Day

They won't frown always—some sweet Day
When I forget to tease—
They'll recollect how cold I looked
And how I just said "Please."
Then They will hasten to the Door
To call the little Girl
Who cannot thank Them for the Ice
That filled the lisping full.






This Bauble Was Preferred Of Bees

This Bauble was preferred of Bees-
By Butterflies admired
At Heavenly-Hopeless Distances-
Was justified of Bird-
Did Noon-enamel-in Herself
Was Summer to a Score
Who only knew of Universe-
It had created Her.






This Chasm, Sweet, Upon My Life

This Chasm, Sweet, upon my life
I mention it to you,
When Sunrise through a fissure drop
The Day must follow too.
If we demur, its gaping sides
Disclose as 'twere a Tomb
Ourself am lying straight wherein
The Favorite of Doom.
When it has just contained a Life
Then, Darling, it will close
And yet so bolder every Day
So turbulent it grows
I'm tempted half to stitch it up
With a remaining Breath
I should not miss in yielding, though
To Him, it would be Death-
And so I bear it big about
My Burial-before
A Life quite ready to depart
Can harass me no more-






This Consciousness That Is Aware

This Consciousness that is aware
Of Neighbors and the Sun
Will be the one aware of Death
And that itself alone
Is traversing the interval
Experience between
And most profound experiment
Appointed unto Men-
How adequate unto itself
Its properties shall be
Itself unto itself and none
Shall make discovery.
Adventure most unto itself
The Soul condemned to be-
Attended by a single Hound
Its own identity.






This Dust, And Its Feature

This Dust, and its Feature-
Accredited-Today-
Will in a second Future-
Cease to identify-
This Mind, and its measure-
A too minute Area
For its enlarged inspection's
Comparison-appear-
This World, and its species
A too concluded show
For its absorbed Attention's
Remotest scrutiny-






This Heart That Broke So Long

This heart that broke so long-
These feet that never flagged-
This faith that watched for star in vain,
Give gently to the dead-
Hound cannot overtake the Hare
That fluttered panting, here-
Nor any schoolboy rob the nest
Tenderness builded there.






This Is A Blossom Of The Brain

This is a Blossom of the Brain-
A small-italic Seed
Lodged by Design or Happening
The Spirit fructified-
Shy as the Wind of his Chambers
Swift as a Freshet's Tongue
So of the Flower of the Soul
Its process is unknown.
When it is found, a few rejoice
The Wise convey it Home
Carefully cherishing the spot
If other Flower become.
When it is lost, that Day shall be
The Funeral of God,
Upon his Breast, a closing Soul
The Flower of our Lord.






This Is My Letter To The World,
This is my letter to the world,
That never wrote to me,The simple news that Nature told,
With tender majesty
Her message is committed
To hands I cannot see;
For love of her, sweet countrymen,
Judge tenderly of me!






This Is The Land The Sunset Washes,
This is the land the sunset washes,
These are the banks of the Yellow Sea;
Where it rose, or whither it rushes,
These are the western mystery!
Night after night her purple traffic
Strews the landing with opal bales;
Merchantmen poise upon horizons,
Dip, and vanish with fairy sails.






This Merit Hath The Worst

This Merit hath the worst-
It cannot be again-
When Fate hath taunted last
And thrown Her furthest Stone-
The Maimed may pause, and breathe,
And glance securely round-
The Deer attracts no further
Than it resists-the Hound-






This Quiet Dust Was Gentlemen And Ladies
This quiet dust was gentlemen and ladies
And lads and girls;
Was laughter and ability and sighing,
And frocks and curls;
This passive place a summer's nimble mansion,
Where bloom and bees
Fulfilled their oriental circuit,
Then ceased like these.






This That Would Greet-An Hour Ago

This that would greet-an hour ago-
Is quaintest Distance-now-
Had it a Guest from Paradise-
Nor glow, would it, nor bow-
Had it a notice from the Noon
Nor beam would it nor warm-
Match me the Silver Reticence-
Match me the Solid Calm-






This Was A Poet-It Is That

This was a Poet-It is That
Distills amazing sense
From ordinary Meanings-
And Attar so immense
From the familiar species
That perished by the Door-
We wonder it was not Ourselves
Arrested it-before-
Of Pictures, the Discloser-
The Poet-it is He-
Entitles Us-by Contrast-
To ceaseless Poverty-
Of portion-so unconscious-
The Robbing-could not harm-
Himself-to Him-a Fortune-
Exterior-to Time-






This Was In The White Of The Year

This was in the White of the Year-
That-was in the Green-
Drifts were as difficult then to think
As Daisies now to be seen-
Looking back is best that is left
Or if it be-before-
Retrospection is Prospect's half,
Sometimes, almost more.






This World Is Not Conclusion

This World is not Conclusion.
A Species stands beyond-
Invisible, as Music-
But positive, as Sound-
It beckons, and it baffles-
Philosophy-don't know-
And through a Riddle, at the last-
Sagacity, must go-
To guess it, puzzles scholars-
To gain it, Men have borne
Contempt of Generations
And Crucifixion, shown-
Faith slips-and laughs, and rallies-
Blushes, if any see-
Plucks at a twig of Evidence-
And asks a Vane, the way-
Much Gesture, from the Pulpit-
Strong Hallelujahs roll-
Narcotics cannot still the Tooth
That nibbles at the soul-






This-Is The Land-The Sunset Washes

This-is the land-the Sunset washes-
These-are the Banks of the Yellow Sea-
Where it rose-or whither it rushes-
These-are the Western Mystery!
Night after Night
Her purple traffic
Strews the landing with Opal Bales-
Merchantmen-poise upon Horizons-
Dip-and vanish like Orioles!






Tho' I Get Home How Late—how Late

Tho' I get home how late—how late—
So I get home - 'twill compensate—
Better will be the Ecstasy
That they have done expecting me—
When Night—descending—dumb—and dark—
They hear my unexpected knock—
Transporting must the moment be—
Brewed from decades of Agony!
To think just how the fire will burn—
Just how long-cheated eyes will turn—
To wonder what myself will say,
And what itself, will say to me—
Beguiles the Centuries of way!






Tho' My Destiny Be Fustian

Tho' my destiny be Fustian-
Hers be damask fine-
Tho' she wear a silver apron-
I, a less divine-
Still, my little Gypsy being
I would far prefer,
Still, my little sunburnt bosom
To her Rosier,
For, when Frosts, their punctual fingers
On her forehead lay,
You and I, and Dr. Holland,
Bloom Eternally!
Roses of a steadfast summer
In a steadfast land,
Where no Autumn lifts her pencil-
And no Reapers stand!






Those Fair—fictitious People

Those fair—fictitious People—
The Women—plucked away
From our familiar Lifetime—
The Men of Ivory—
Those Boys and Girls, in Canvas—
Who stay upon the Wall
In Everlasting Keepsake—
Can Anybody tell?
We trust—in places perfecter—
Inheriting Delight
Beyond our faint Conjecture—
Our dizzy Estimate—
Remembering ourselves, we trust—
Yet Blesseder—than We—
Through Knowing—where We only hope—
Receiving—where we—pray—
Of Expectation—also—
Anticipating us
With transport, that would be a pain
Except for Holiness—
Esteeming us—as Exile—
Themself—admitted Home—
Through easy Miracle of Death—
The Way ourself, must come—






Those Who Have Been In The Grave The Longest

Those who have been in the Grave the longest-
Those who begin Today-
Equally perish from our Practise-
Death is the other way-
Foot of the Bold did least attempt it-
It-is the White Exploit-
Once to achieve, annuls the power
Once to communicate-






Three Times—we Parted—breath—and I

Three times—we parted—Breath—and I—
Three times—He would not go—
But strove to stir the lifeless Fan
The Waters—strove to stay.
Three Times—the Billows tossed me up—
Then caught me—like a Ball—
Then made Blue faces in my face—
And pushed away a sail
That crawled Leagues off—I liked to see—
For thinking—while I die—
How pleasant to behold a Thing
Where Human faces—be—
The Waves grew sleepy—Breath—did not—
The Winds—like Children—lulled—
Then Sunrise kissed my Chrysalis—
And I stood up—and lived—






Through Lane It Lay—through Bramble

Through lane it lay—through bramble—
Through clearing and through wood—
Banditti often passed us
Upon the lonely road.
The wolf came peering curious—
The owl looked puzzled down—
The serpent's satin figure
Glid stealthily along—
The tempests touched our garments—
The lightning's poinards gleamed—
Fierce from the Crag above us
The hungry Vulture screamed—
The satyr's fingers beckoned—
The valley murmured "Come"—
These were the mates—
This was the road
Those children fluttered home.






Through The Dark Sod—as Education
Through the Dark Sod—as Education—
The Lily passes sure—
Feels her white foot—no trepidation—
Her faith—no fear—
Afterward—in the Meadow—
Swinging her Beryl Bell—
The Mold-life—all forgotten—now—
In Ecstasy—and Dell—






Through The Strait Pass Of Suffering

Through the strait pass of suffering-
The Martyrs-even-trod.
Their feet-upon Temptations-
Their faces-upon God-
A stately-shriven-Company-
Convulsion-playing round-
Harmless-as streaks of Meteor-
Upon a Planet's Bond-
Their faith-the everlasting troth-
Their Expectation-fair-
The Needle-to the North Degree-
Wades-so-thro' polar Air!






Tie The Strings To My Life, My Lord,
Tie the strings to my life, my Lord,
Then I am ready to go!
Just a look at the horses -Rapid! That will do!
Put me in on the firmest side,
So I shall never fall;
For we must ride to the Judgment,
And it's partly down hill.
But never I mind the bridges,
And never I mind the sea;
Held fast in everlasting race
By my own choice and thee.
Good-by to the life I used to lives,
And the world I used to know;
And kiss the hills for me, just once;
Now I am ready to go!






Till Death—is Narrow Loving

Till Death—is narrow Loving—
The scantest Heart extant
Will hold you till your privilege
Of Finiteness—be spent—
But He whose loss procures you
Such Destitution that
Your Life too abject for itself
Thenceforward imitate—
Until—Resemblance perfect—
Yourself, for His pursuit
Delight of Nature—abdicate—
Exhibit Love—somewhat—






Time Feels So Vast That Were It Not

Time feels so vast that were it not
For an Eternity-
I fear me this Circumference
Engross my Finity-
To His exclusion, who prepare
By Processes of Size
For the Stupendous Vision
Of his diameters-






'Tis Anguish Grander Than Delight

'Tis Anguish grander than Delight
'Tis Resurrection Pain-
The meeting Bands of smitten Face
We questioned to, again.
'Tis Transport wild as thrills the Graves
When Cerements let go
And Creatures clad in Miracle
Go up by Two and Two.






'Tis Customary As We Part

'Tis customary as we part
A trinket-to confer-
It helps to stimulate the faith
When Lovers be afar-
'Tis various-as the various taste-
Clematis-journeying far-
Presents me with a single Curl
Of her Electric Hair-






'Tis Good-The Looking Back On Grief

'Tis good-the looking back on Grief-
To re-endure a Day-
We thought the Mighty Funeral-
Of All Conceived Joy-
To recollect how Busy Grass
Did meddle-one by one-
Till all the Grief with Summer-waved
And none could see the stone.
And though the Woe you have Today
Be larger-As the Sea
Exceeds its Unremembered Drop-
They're Water-equally-






'Tis Little I—could Care For Pearls

'Tis little I—could care for Pearls—
Who own the ample sea—
Or Brooches—when the Emperor—
With Rubies—pelteth me—
Or Gold—who am the Prince of Mines—
Or Diamonds—when have I
A Diadem to fit a Dom—
Continual upon me—






'Tis Not That Dying Hurts Us So

'Tis not that Dying hurts us so-
'Tis Living-hurts us more-
But Dying-is a different way-
A Kind behind the Door-
The Southern Custom-of the Bird-
That ere the Frosts are due-
Accepts a better Latitude-
We-are the Birds-that stay.
The Shrivers round Farmers' doors-
For whose reluctant Crumb-
We stipulate-till pitying Snows
Persuade our Feathers Home.






'Tis One By One — The Father Counts

'Tis One by One — the Father counts —
And then a Tract between
Set Cypherless — to teach the Eye
The Value of its Ten —
Until the peevish Student
Acquire the Quick of Skill —
Then Numerals are dowered back —
Adorning all the Rule —
'Tis mostly Slate and Pencil —
And Darkness on the School
Distracts the Children's fingers —
Still the Eternal Rule
Regards least Cypherer alike
With Leader of the Band —
And every separate Urchin's Sum —
Is fashioned for his hand —






'Tis Opposites-Entice

'Tis Opposites-entice-
Deformed Men-ponder Grace-
Bright fires-the Blanketless-
The Lost-Day's face-
The Blind-esteem it be
Enough Estate-to see-
The Captive-strangles new-
For deeming-Beggars-play-
To lack-enamor Thee-
Tho' the Divinity-
Be only
Me-






'Tis So Appalling-It Exhilarates

'Tis so appalling-it exhilarates-
So over Horror, it half Captivates-
The Soul stares after it, secure-
A Sepulchre, fears frost, no more-
To scan a Ghost, is faint-
But grappling, conquers it-
How easy, Torment, now-
Suspense kept sawing so-
The Truth, is Bald, and Cold-
But that will hold-
If any are not sure-
We show them-prayer-
But we, who know,
Stop hoping, now-
Looking at Death, is Dying-
Just let go the Breath-
And not the pillow at your Cheek
So Slumbereth-
Others, Can wrestle-
Yours, is done-
And so of Woe, bleak dreaded-come,
It sets the Fright at liberty-
And Terror's free-
Gay, Ghastly, Holiday!






'Tis So Much Joy!

'Tis so much joy! 'Tis so much joy!
If I should fail, what poverty!
And yet, as poor as I,
Have ventured all upon a throw!
Have gained! Yes! Hesitated so—
This side the Victory!
Life is but Life! And Death, but Death!
Bliss is, but Bliss, and Breath but Breath!
And if indeed I fail,
At least, to know the worst, is sweet!
Defeat means nothing but Defeat,
No drearier, can befall!
And if I gain! Oh Gun at Sea!
Oh Bells, that in the Steeples be!
At first, repeat it slow!
For Heaven is a different thing,
Conjectured, and waked sudden in—
And might extinguish me!






'Tis Sunrise-Little Maid-Hast Thou

'Tis Sunrise-Little Maid-Hast Thou
No Station in the Day?
'Twas not thy wont, to hinder so-
Retrieve thine industry-
'Tis Noon-My little Maid-
Alas-and art thou sleeping yet?
The Lily-waiting to be Wed-
The Bee-Hast thou forgot?
My little Maid-'Tis Night-Alas
That Night should be to thee
Instead of Morning-Had'st thou broached
Thy little Plan to Die-
Dissuade thee, if I could not, Sweet,
I might have aided-thee-






'Tis True—they Shut Me In The Cold

'Tis true—They shut me in the Cold—
But then—Themselves were warm
And could not know the feeling 'twas—
Forget it—Lord—of Them—
Let not my Witness hinder Them
In Heavenly esteem—
No Paradise could be—Conferred
Through Their beloved Blame—
The Harm They did—was short—And since
Myself—who bore it—do—
Forgive Them—Even as Myself—
Or else—forgive not me—






To Be Alive—is Power

To be alive—is Power—
Existence—in itself—
Without a further function—
Omnipotence—Enough—
To be alive—and Will!
'Tis able as a God—
The Maker—of Ourselves—be what—
Such being Finitude!






To Die
To die--takes just a little while--They say it doesn't hurt--It's only fainter--by degrees--And then--it's out of sight--A darker Ribbon--for a Day--A Crape upon the Hat--And then the pretty sunshine comes--And helps us to forget--The absent--mystic--creature--That but for love of us--Had gone to sleep--that soundest time--Without the weariness--








To Fight Aloud, Is Very Brave

To fight aloud, is very brave-
But gallanter, I know
Who charge within the bosom
The Cavalry of Woe-
Who win, and nations do not see-
Who fall-and none observe-
Whose dying eyes, no Country
Regards with patriot love-
We trust, in plumed procession
For such, the Angels go-
Rank after Rank, with even feet-
And Uniforms of Snow.






To Fill A Gap

To fill a Gap
Insert the Thing that caused it-
Block it up
With Other-and 'twill yawn the more-
You cannot solder an Abyss
With Air.






To Flee From Memory

To flee from memory
Had we the Wings
Many would fly
Inured to slower things
Birds with surprise
Would scan the cowering Van
Of men escaping
From the mind of man






To Hang Our Head-Ostensibly

To hang our head-ostensibly-
And subsequent, to find
That such was not the posture
Of our immortal mind-
Affords the sly presumption
That in so dense a fuzz-
You-too-take Cobweb attitudes
Upon a plane of Gauze!






To Hear An Oriole Sing

To hear an Oriole sing
May be a common thing-
Or only a divine.
It is not of the Bird
Who sings the same, unheard,
As unto Crowd-
The Fashion of the Ear
Attireth that it hear
In Dun, or fair-
So whether it be Rune,
Or whether it be none
Is of within.
The "Tune is in the Tree-"
The Skeptic-showeth me-
"No Sir! In Thee!"






To Interrupt His Yellow Plan

To interrupt His Yellow Plan
The Sun does not allow
Caprices of the Atmosphere-
And even when the Snow
Heaves Balls of Specks, like Vicious Boy
Directly in His Eye-
Does not so much as turn His Head
Busy with Majesty-
'Tis His to stimulate the Earth-
And magnetize the Sea-
And bind Astronomy, in place,
Yet Any passing by
Would deem Ourselves-the busier
As the Minutest Bee
That rides-emits a Thunder-
A Bomb-to justify-






To Know Just How He Suffered—Would Be Dear

To know just how He suffered—would be dear—
To know if any Human eyes were near
To whom He could entrust His wavering gaze—
Until it settle broad—on Paradise—
To know if He was patient—part content—
Was Dying as He thought—or different—
Was it a pleasant Day to die—
And did the Sunshine face his way—
What was His furthest mind—Of Home—or God—
Or what the Distant say—
At news that He ceased Human Nature
Such a Day—
And Wishes—Had He Any—
Just His Sigh—Accented—
Had been legible—to Me—
And was He Confident until
Ill fluttered out—in Everlasting Well—
And if He spoke—What name was Best—
What last
What One broke off with
At the Drowsiest—
Was He afraid—or tranquil—
Might He know
How Conscious Consciousness—could grow—
Till Love that was—and Love too best to be—
Meet—and the Junction be Eternity






To Learn The Transport By The Pain

To learn the Transport by the Pain
As Blind Men learn the sun!
To die of thirst-suspecting
That Brooks in Meadows run!
To stay the homesick-homesick feet
Upon a foreign shore-
Haunted by native lands, the while-
And blue-beloved air!
This is the Sovereign Anguish!
This-the signal woe!
These are the patient "Laureates"
Whose voices-trained-below-
Ascend in ceaseless Carol-
Inaudible, indeed,
To us-the duller scholars
Of the Mysterious Bard!






To Lose One's Faith-Surpass

To lose one's faith-surpass
The loss of an Estate-
Because Estates can be
Replenished-faith cannot-
Inherited with Life-
Belief-but once-can be-
Annihilate a single clause-
And Being's-Beggary-






To Lose Thee

To lose thee, sweeter than to gain
All other hearts I knew.
Tis true the drought is destitute
But, then, I had the dew!
The Caspian has its realms of sand,
Its other realm of sea.
Without this sterile perquisite
No Caspian could be.






To Love Thee Year By Year

To love thee Year by Year-
May less appear
Than sacrifice, and cease-
However, dear,
Forever might be short, I thought to show-
And so I pieced it, with a flower, now.






To Make A Prairie

To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,
One clover, and a bee.
And revery.
The revery alone will do,
If bees are few.






To Make One's Toilette-After Death

To make One's Toilette-after Death
Has made the Toilette cool
Of only Taste we cared to please
Is difficult, and still-
That's easier-than Braid the Hair-
And make the Bodice gay-
When eyes that fondled it are wrenched
By Decalogues-away-






To Mend Each Tattered Faith

To mend each tattered Faith
There is a needle fair
Though no appearance indicate
'Tis threaded in the Air
And though it do not wear
As if it never Tore
'Tis very comfortable indeed
And spacious as before






To My Quick Ear The Leaves Conferred;

To my quick ear the leaves conferred;
The bushes they were bells;
I could not find a privacy
From Nature's sentinels.
In cave if I presumed to hide,
The walls began to tell;
Creation seemed a mighty crack
To make me visible.






To My Small Hearth His Fire Came

To my small Hearth His fire came-
And all my House aglow
Did fan and rock, with sudden light-
'Twas Sunrise-'twas the Sky-
Impanelled from no Summer brief-
With limit of Decay-
'Twas Noon-without the News of Night-
Nay, Nature, it was Day-






To Offer Brave Assistance

To offer brave assistance
To Lives that stand alone-
When One has failed to stop them-
Is Human-but Divine
To lend an Ample Sinew
Unto a Nameless Man-
Whose Homely Benediction
No other-stopped to earn-






To One Denied The Drink

To One denied the drink
To tell what Water is
Would be acuter, would it not
Than letting Him surmise?
To lead Him to the Well
And let Him hear it drip
Remind Him, would it not, somewhat
Of His condemned lip?






To Own The Art Within The Soul

To own the Art within the Soul
The Soul to entertain
With Silence as a Company
And Festival maintain
Is an unfurnished Circumstance
Possession is to One
As an Estate perpetual
Or a reduceless Mine.






To Put This World Down, Like A Bundle

To put this World down, like a Bundle-
And walk steady, away,
Requires Energy-possibly Agony-
'Tis the Scarlet way
Trodden with straight renunciation
By the Son of God-
Later, his faint Confederates
Justify the Road-
Flavors of that old Crucifixion-
Filaments of Bloom, Pontius Pilate sowed-
Strong Clusters, from Barabbas' Tomb-
Sacrament, Saints partook before us-
Patent, every drop,
With the Brand of the Gentile Drinker
Who indorsed the Cup-






To See Her Is A Picture

To see her is a Picture —
To hear her is a Tune —
To know her an Intemperance
As innocent as June —
To know her not — Affliction —
To own her for a Friend
A warmth as near as if the Sun
Were shining in your Hand.






To the bright east she flies,

To the bright east she flies,
Brothers of Paradise
Remit her home,
Without a change of wings,
Or Love's convenient things,
Enticed to come.
Fashioning what she is,
Fathoming what she was,
We deem we dream And that dissolves the days
Through which existence strays
Homeless at home.






To This World She Returned

To this World she returned.
But with a tinge of that-
A Compound manner,
As a Sod
Espoused a Violet,
That chiefer to the Skies
Than to himself, allied,
Dwelt hesitating, half of Dust,
And half of Day, the Bride.






To Venerate The Simple Days

To venerate the simple days
Which lead the seasons by,
Needs but to remember
That from you or I,
They may take the trifle
Termed mortality!






To Wait An Hour—is Long

To wait an Hour—is long—
If Love be just beyond—
To wait Eternity—is short—
If Love reward the end—






'Tomorrow' - whose location
'Tomorrow' - whose location
The Wise deceives
Though its hallucination
Is last that leaves Tomorrow - thou Retriever
Of every tare Of Alibi art thou
Or ownest where?






Too cold is this
Too cold is this
To warm with Sun Too stiff to bended be,
To joint this Agate were a work Outstaring Masonry How went the Agile Kernel out
Contusion of the Husk
Nor Rip, nor wrinkle indicate
But just an Asterisk.






Too Little Way The House Must Lie

Too little way the House must lie
From every Human Heart
That holds in undisputed Lease
A white inhabitant-
Too narrow is the Right between-
Too imminent the chance-
Each Consciousness must emigrate
And lose its neighbor once-






Train

I like to see it lap the miles,
And lick the valleys up,
And stop to feed itself at tanks;
And then, prodigious, step
Around a pile of mountains,
And, supercilious, peer
In shanties by the sides of roads;
And then a quarry pare
To fit its sides, and crawl between,
Complaining all the while
In horrid, hooting stanza;
Then chase itself down the hill
And neigh like Boanerges;
Then, punctual as a star,
Stop - docile and omnipotent At its own stable door.






Triumph—may Be Of Several Kinds

Triumph—may be of several kinds—
There's Triumph in the Room
When that Old Imperator—Death—
By Faith






Trust In The Unexpected

Trust in the Unexpected-
By this-was William Kidd
Persuaded of the Buried Gold-
As One had testified-
Through this-the old Philosopher-
His Talismanic Stone
Discern&eacute;d-still withholden
To effort undivine-
'Twas this-allured Columbus-
When Genoa-withdrew
Before an Apparition
Baptized America-
The Same-afflicted Thomas-
When Deity assured
'Twas better-the perceiving not-
Provided it believed-






Truth—is As Old As God

Truth—is as old as God—
His Twin identity
And will endure as long as He
A Co-Eternity—
And perish on the Day
Himself is borne away
From Mansion of the Universe
A lifeless Deity.






'Twas A Long Parting-But The Time

'Twas a long Parting-but the time
For Interview-had Come-
Before the Judgment Seat of God-
The last-and second time
These Fleshless Lovers met-
A Heaven in a Gaze-
A Heaven of Heavens-the Privilege
Of one another's Eyes-
No Lifetime-on Them-
Appareled as the new
Unborn-except They had beheld-
Born infiniter-now-
Was Bridal-e'er like This?
A Paradise-the Host-
And Cherubim-and Seraphim-
The unobtrusive Guest-






'Twas comfort in her Dying Room
'Twas comfort in her Dying Room
To hear the living Clock A short relief to have the wind
Walk boldly up and knock Diversion from the Dying Theme
To hear the children play But wrong the more
That these could live
And this of ours must die.






Twas Crisis—all The Length Had Passed
'Twas Crisis—All the length had passed—
That dull—benumbing time
There is in Fever or Event—
And now the Chance had come—
The instant holding in its claw
The privilege to live
Or warrant to report the Soul
The other side the Grave.
The Muscles grappled as with leads
That would not let the Will—
The Spirit shook the Adamant—
But could not make it feel.
The Second poised—debated—shot—
Another had begun—
And simultaneously, a Soul
Escaped the House unseen—






'Twas Just This Time, Last Year, I Died

'Twas just this time, last year, I died.
I know I heard the Corn,
When I was carried by the Farms-
It had the Tassels on-
I thought how yellow it would look-
When Richard went to mill-
And then, I wanted to get out,
But something held my will.
I thought just how Red-Apples wedged
The Stubble's joints between-
And the Carts stooping round the fields
To take the Pumpkins in-
I wondered which would miss me, least,
And when Thanksgiving, came,
If Father'd multiply the plates-
To make an even Sum-
And would it blur the Christmas glee
My Stocking hang too high
For any Santa Claus to reach
The Altitude of me-
But this sort, grieved myself,
And so, I thought the other way,
How just this time, some perfect year-
Themself, should come to me-






'Twas Like A Maelstrom, With A Notch

'Twas like a Maelstrom, with a notch,
That nearer, every Day,
Kept narrowing its boiling Wheel
Until the Agony
Toyed coolly with the final inch
Of your delirious Hem-
And you dropt, lost,
When something broke-
And let you from a Dream-
As if a Goblin with a Gauge-
Kept measuring the Hours-
Until you felt your Second
Weigh, helpless, in his Paws-
And not a Sinew-stirred-could help,
And sense was setting numb-
When God-remembered-and the Fiend
Let go, then, Overcome-
As if your Sentence stood-pronounced-
And you were frozen led
From Dungeon's luxury of Doubt
To Gibbets, and the Dead-
And when the Film had stitched your eyes
A Creature gasped "Reprieve"!
Which Anguish was the utterest-then-
To perish, or to live?






'Twas Love—not Me

'Twas Love—not me—
Oh punish—pray—
The Real one died for Thee—
Just Him—not me—
Such Guilt—to love Thee—most!
Doom it beyond the Rest—
Forgive it—last—
'Twas base as Jesus—most!
Let Justice not mistake—
We Two—looked so alike—
Which was the Guilty Sake—
'Twas Love's—Now Strike!






Twas Such A Little—little Boat

'Twas such a little—little boat
That toddled down the bay!
'Twas such a gallant—gallant sea
That beckoned it away!
'Twas such a greedy, greedy wave
That licked it from the Coast—
Nor ever guessed the stately sails
My little craft was lost!






'Twas The Old—road—through Pain

'Twas the old—road—through pain—
That unfrequented—one—
With many a turn—and thorn—
That stops—at Heaven—
This—was the Town—she passed—
There—where she—rested—last—
Then—stepped more fast—
The little tracks—close prest—
Then—not so swift—
Slow—slow—as feet did weary—grow—
Then—stopped—no other track!
Wait! Look! Her little Book—
The leaf—at love—turned back—
Her very Hat—
And this worn shoe just fits the track—
Herself—though—fled!
Another bed—a short one—
Women make—tonight—
In Chambers bright—
Too out of sight—though—
For our hoarse Good Night—
To touch her Head!






'Twas Warm—at First—like Us

'Twas warm—at first—like Us—
Until there crept upon
A Chill—like frost upon a Glass—
Till all the scene—be gone.
The Forehead copied Stone—
The Fingers grew too cold
To ache—and like a Skater's Brook—
The busy eyes—congealed—
It straightened—that was all—
It crowded Cold to Cold—
It multiplied indifference—
As Pride were all it could—
And even when with Cords—
'Twas lowered, like a Weight—
It made no Signal, nor demurred,
But dropped like Adamant.






Twice Had Summer Her Fair Verdure

Twice had Summer her fair Verdure
Proffered to the Plain-
Twice a Winter's silver Fracture
On the Rivers been-
Two full Autumns for the Squirrel
Bounteous prepared-
Nature, Had'st thou not a Berry
For thy wandering Bird?






Two Butterflies Went Out At Noon

Two butterflies went out at noon
And waltzed above a stream,
Then stepped straight through the firmament
And rested on a beam;
And then together bore away
Upon a shining sea,-Though never yet, in any port
Their coming mentioned be.
If spoken by the distant bird,
If met in ether sea
By frigate or by merchantman,
Report was not to me.






Two Swimmers Wrestled On The Spar

Two swimmers wrestled on the spar-
Until the morning sun-
When One-turned smiling to the land-
Oh God! the Other One!
The stray ships-passing-
Spied a face-
Upon the waters borne-
With eyes in death-still begging raised-
And hands-beseeching-thrown!






Two Travellers Perishing In Snow

Two Travellers perishing in Snow
The Forests as they froze
Together heard them strengthening
Each other with the words
That Heaven if Heaven-must contain
What Either left behind
And then the cheer too solemn grew
For language, and the wind
Long steps across the features took
That Love had touched the Morn
With reverential Hyacinth-
The taleless Days went on
Till Mystery impatient drew
And those They left behind
Led absent, were procured of Heaven
As Those first furnished, said-






'Twould Ease—a Butterfly

'Twould ease—a Butterfly—
Elate—a Bee—
Thou'rt neither—
Neither—thy capacity—
But, Blossom, were I,
I would rather be
Thy moment
Than a Bee's Eternity—
Content of fading
Is enough for me—
Fade I unto Divinity—
And Dying—Lifetime—
Ample as the Eye—
Her least attention raise on me—






Two—were Immortal Twice

Two—were immortal twice—
The privilege of few—
Eternity—obtained—in Time—
Reversed Divinity—
That our ignoble Eyes
The quality conceive
Of Paradise superlative—
Through their Comparative.






Unable Are The Loved To Die

Unable are the Loved to die
For Love is Immortality,
Nay, it is Deity-
Unable they that love-to die
For Love reforms Vitality
Into Divinity.






Uncertain Lease—develops Lustre

Uncertain lease—develops lustre
On Time
Uncertain Grasp, appreciation
Of Sum—
The shorter Fate—is oftener the chiefest
Because
Inheritors upon a tenure
Prize—






Under The Light, Yet Under

Under the Light, yet under,Under the Grass and the Dirt,Under the Beetle's CellarUnder the Clover's Root,Further than Arm could stretchWere it Giant long,Further than Sunshine couldWere the Day Year long,Over the Light, yet over,Over the Arc of the Bird-Over the Comet's chimney-Over the Cubit's Head,Further than Guess can gallopFurther than Riddle ride-Oh for a Disc to the DistanceBetween Ourselves and the Dead!






Undue Significance A Starving Man Attaches

Undue Significance a starving man attaches
To Food-
Far off-He sighs-and therefore-Hopeless-
And therefore-Good-
Partaken-it relieves-indeed-
But proves us
That Spices fly
In the Receipt-It was the Distance-
Was Savory-






Unfulfilled To Observation

Unfulfilled to Observation-
Incomplete-to Eye-
But to Faith-a Revolution
In Locality-
Unto Us-the Suns extinguish-
To our Opposite-
New Horizons-they embellish-
Fronting Us-with Night.






Unit, Like Death, For Whom?

Unit, like Death, for Whom?
True, like the Tomb,
Who tells no secret
Told to Him-
The Grave is strict-
Tickets admit
Just two-the Bearer-
And the Borne-
And seat-just One-
The Living-tell-
The Dying-but a Syllable-
The Coy Dead-None-
No Chatter-here-no tea-
So Babbler, and Bohea-stay there-
But Gravity-and Expectation-and Fear-
A tremor just, that All's not sure.






Unto Like Story—trouble Has Enticed Me

Unto like Story—Trouble has enticed me—
How Kinsmen fell—
Brothers and Sister—who preferred the Glory—
And their young will
Bent to the Scaffold, or in Dungeons—chanted—
Till God's full time—
When they let go the ignominy—smiling—
And Shame went still—
Unto guessed Crests, my moaning fancy, leads me,
Worn fair
By Heads rejected—in the lower country—
Of honors there—
Such spirit makes her perpetual mention,
That I—grown bold—
Step martial—at my Crucifixion—
As Trumpets—rolled—
Feet, small as mine—have marched in Revolution
Firm to the Drum—
Hands—not so stout—hoisted them—in witness—
When Speech went numb—
Let me not shame their sublime deportments—
Drilled bright—
Beckoning—Etruscan invitation—
Toward Light—
Unto Me? I Do Not Know You—
"Unto Me?" I do not know you—
Where may be your House?
"I am Jesus—Late of Judea—
Now—of Paradise"—
Wagons—have you—to convey me?
This is far from Thence—
"Arms of Mine—sufficient Phaeton—
Trust Omnipotence"—
I am spotted—"I am Pardon"—
I am small—"The Least
Is esteemed in Heaven the Chiefest—
Occupy my House"—






Unto My Books—so Good To Turn

Unto my Books—so good to turn—
Far ends of tired Days—
It half endears the Abstinence—
And Pain—is missed—in Praise—
As Flavors—cheer Retarded Guests
With Banquettings to be—
So Spices—stimulate the time
Till my small Library—
It may be Wilderness—without—
Far feet of failing Men—
But Holiday—excludes the night—
And it is Bells—within—
I thank these Kinsmen of the Shelf—
Their Countenances Kid
Enamor—in Prospective—
And satisfy—obtained—






Upon Concluded Lives

Upon Concluded Lives
There's nothing cooler falls-
Than Life's sweet Calculations-
The mixing Bells and Palls-
Make Lacerating Tune-
To Ears the Dying Side-
'Tis Coronal-and Funeral-
Saluting-in the Road-






Victory Comes Late

Victory comes late-
And is held low to freezing lips-
Too rapt with frost
To take it-
How sweet it would have tasted-
Just a Drop-
Was God so economical?
His Table's spread too high for Us-
Unless We dine on tiptoe-
Crumbs-fit such little mouths-
Cherries-suit Robbins-
The Eagle's Golden Breakfast strangles-Them-
God keep His Oath to Sparrows-
Who of little Love-know how to starve-






Volcanoes be in Sicily

Volcanoes be in Sicily
And South America
I judge from my Geography Volcanos nearer here
A Lava step at any time
Am I inclined to climb A Crater I may contemplate
Vesuvius at Home.






Wait Till The Majesty Of Death

Wait till the Majesty of Death
Invests so mean a brow!
Almost a powdered Footman
Might dare to touch it now!
Wait till in Everlasting Robes
That Democrat is dressed,
Then prate about "Preferment"-
And "Station," and the rest!
Around this quiet Courtier
Obsequious Angels wait!
Full royal is his Retinue!
Full purple is his state!
A Lord, might dare to lift the Hat
To such a Modest Clay
Since that My Lord, "the Lord of Lords"
Receives unblushingly!






Warm in her Hand these accents lie

Warm in her Hand these accents lie
While faithful and afar
The Grace so awkward for her sake
Its fond subjection wear 





Water makes many Beds
For those averse to sleep -Its awful chamber open stands -Its Curtains blandly sweep -Abhorrent is the RestIn undulating RoomsWhose Amplitude no end invades -Whose Axis never comes.





Water, Is Taught By Thirst

Water, is taught by thirst.
Land-by the Oceans passed.
Transport-by throe-
Peace-by its battles told-
Love, by Memorial Mold-
Birds, by the Snow.






We Can But Follow To The Sun

We can but follow to the Sun-
As oft as He go down
He leave Ourselves a Sphere behind-
'Tis mostly-following-
We go no further with the Dust
Than to the Earthen Door-
And then the Panels are reversed-
And we behold-no more.






We Cover Thee—sweet Face

We Cover Thee—Sweet Face—
Not that We tire of Thee—
But that Thyself fatigue of Us—
Remember—as Thou go—
We follow Thee until
Thou notice Us—no more—
And then—reluctant—turn away
To Con Thee o'er and o'er—
And blame the scanty love
We were Content to show—
Augmented—Sweet—a Hundred fold—
If Thou would'st take it—now—






We Do Not Play On Graves

We do not play on Graves-
Because there isn't Room-
Besides-it isn't even-it slants
And People come-
And put a Flower on it-
And hang their faces so-
We're fearing that their Hearts will drop-
And crush our pretty play-
And so we move as far
As Enemies-away-
Just looking round to see how far
It is-Occasionally-






We Don'T Cry—tim And I

We don't cry—Tim and I,
We are far too grand—
But we bolt the door tight
To prevent a friend—
Then we hide our brave face
Deep in our hand—
Not to cry—Tim and I—
We are far too grand—
Nor to dream—he and me—
Do we condescend—
We just shut our brown eye
To see to the end—
Tim—see Cottages—
But, Oh, so high!
Then—we shake—Tim and I—
And lest I—cry—
Tim—reads a little Hymn—
And we both pray—
Please, Sir, I and Tim—
Always lost the way!
We must die—by and by—
Clergymen say—
Tim—shall—if I—do—
I—too—if he—
How shall we arrange it—
Tim—was—so—shy?
Take us simultaneous—Lord—
I—"Tim"—and Me!






We Dream—it Is Good We Are Dreaming

We dream—it is good we are dreaming—
It would hurt us—were we awake—
But since it is playing—kill us,
And we are playing—shriek—
What harm? Men die—externally—
It is a truth—of Blood—
But we—are dying in Drama—
And Drama—is never dead—
Cautious—We jar each other—
And either—open the eyes—
Lest the Phantasm—prove the Mistake—
And the livid Surprise
Cool us to Shafts of Granite—
With just an Age—and Name—
And perhaps a phrase in Egyptian—
It's prudenter—to dream—






We Grow Accustomed To The Dark
We grow accustomed to the Dark -When light is put away -As when the Neighbor holds the LampTo witness her Goodbye -A Moment - We uncertain stepFor newness of the night -Then - fit our Vision to the Dark -And meet the Road - erect -And so of larger - Darknesses -Those Evenings of the Brain -When not a Moon disclose a sign -Or Star - come out - within -The Bravest - grope a little -And sometimes hit a TreeDirectly in the Forehead -But as they learn to see -Either the Darkness alters -Or something in the sightAdjusts itself to Midnight -And Life steps almost straight.






We Learned The Whole Of Love

We learned the Whole of Love-
The Alphabet-the Words-
A Chapter-then the mighty Book-
Then-Revelation closed-
But in Each Other's eyes
An Ignorance beheld-
Diviner than the Childhood's-
And each to each, a Child-
Attempted to expound
What Neither-understood-
Alas, that Wisdom is so large-
And Truth-so manifold!






We Like March, His Shoes Are Purple,

We like March, his shoes are purple,
He is new and high;
Makes he mud for dog and peddler,
Makes he forest dry;
Knows the adder's tongue his coming,
And begets her spot.
Stands the sun so close and mighty
That our minds are hot.
News is he of all the others;
Bold it were to die
With the blue-birds buccaneering
On his British sky.






We Lose—because We Win

We lose—because we win—
Gamblers—recollecting which
Toss their dice again!






We Met As Sparks—diverging Flints

We met as Sparks—Diverging Flints
Sent various—scattered ways—
We parted as the Central Flint
Were cloven with an Adze—
Subsisting on the Light We bore
Before We felt the Dark—
A Flint unto this Day—perhaps—
But for that single Spark.






We Miss Her, Not Because We See

We miss Her, not because We see-
The Absence of an Eye-
Except its Mind accompany
Abridge Society
As slightly as the Routes of Stars-
Ourselves-asleep below-
We know that their superior Eyes
Include Us-as they go-






We Outgrow Love, Like Other Things

We outgrow love, like other things
And put it in the Drawer-
Till it an Antique fashion shows-
Like Costumes Grandsires wore.






We Play At Paste,

We play at paste,
Till qualified for pearl,
Then drop the paste,
And deem ourself a fool.
The shapes, though, were similar,
And our new hands
Learned gem-tactics
Practising sands.






We Pray-To Heaven

We pray-to Heaven-
We prate-of Heaven-
Relate-when Neighbors die-
At what o'clock to heaven-they fled-
Who saw them-Wherefore fly?
Is Heaven a Place-a Sky-a Tree?
Location's narrow way is for Ourselves-
Unto the Dead
There's no Geography-
But State-Endowal-Focus-
Where-Omnipresence-fly?






We See-Comparatively

We see-Comparatively-
The Thing so towering high
We could not grasp its segment
Unaided-Yesterday-
This Morning's finer Verdict-
Makes scarcely worth the toil-
A furrow-Our Cordillera-
Our Apennine-a Knoll-
Perhaps 'tis kindly-done us-
The Anguish-and the loss-
The wrenching-for His Firmament
The Thing belonged to us-
To spare these Striding Spirits
Some Morning of Chagrin-
The waking in a Gnat's-embrace-
Our Giants-further on-






We Should Not Mind So Small A Flower

We should not mind so small a flower-
Except it quiet bring
Our little garden that we lost
Back to the Lawn again.
So spicy her Carnations nod-
So drunken, reel her Bees-
So silver steal a hundred flutes
From out a hundred trees-
That whoso sees this little flower
By faith may clear behold
The Bobolinks around the throne
And Dandelions gold.






We Talked As Girls Do

We talked as Girls do-
Fond, and late-
We speculated fair, on every subject, but the Grave-
Of ours, none affair-
We handled Destinies, as cool-
As we-Disposers-be-
And God, a Quiet Party
To our Authority-
But fondest, dwelt upon Ourself
As we eventual-be-
When Girls to Women, softly raised
We-occupy-Degree-
We parted with a contract
To cherish, and to write
But Heaven made both, impossible
Before another night.






We Thirst At First—'Tis Nature's Act

We thirst at first—'tis Nature's Act—
And later—when we die—
A little Water supplicate—
Of fingers going by—
It intimates the finer want—
Whose adequate supply
Is that Great Water in the West—
Termed Immortality—






We—bee And I—live By The Quaffing

We—Bee and I—live by the quaffing—
'Tisn't all Hock—with us—
Life has its Ale—
But it's many a lay of the Dim Burgundy—
We chant—for cheer—when the Wines—fail—
Do we "get drunk"?
Ask the jolly Clovers!
Do we "beat" our "Wife"?
I—never wed—
Bee—pledges his—in minute flagons—
Dainty—as the trees—on our deft Head—
While runs the Rhine—
He and I—revel—
First—at the vat—and latest at the Vine—
Noon—our last Cup—
"Found dead"—"of Nectar"—
By a humming Coroner—
In a By-Thyme!






Went Up A Year This Evening!

Went up a year this evening!
I recollect it well!
Amid no bells nor bravoes
The bystanders will tell!
Cheerful-as to the village-
Tranquil-as to repose-
Chastened-as to the Chapel
This humble Tourist rose!
Did not talk of returning!
Alluded to no time
When, were the gales propitious-
We might look for him!
Was grateful for the Roses
In life's diverse bouquet-
Talked softly of new species
To pick another day;
Beguiling thus the wonder
The wondrous nearer drew-
Hands bustled at the moorings-
The crown respectful grew-
Ascended from our vision
To Countenances new!
A Difference-A Daisy-
Is all the rest I knew!






Wert Thou But Ill—that I Might Show Thee

Wert Thou but ill—that I might show thee
How long a Day I could endure
Though thine attention stop not on me
Nor the least signal, Me assure—
Wert Thou but Stranger in ungracious country—
And Mine—the Door
Thou paused at, for a passing bounty—
No More—
Accused—wert Thou—and Myself—Tribunal—
Convicted—Sentenced—Ermine—not to Me
Half the Condition, thy Reverse—to follow—
Just to partake—the infamy—
The Tenant of the Narrow Cottage, wert Thou—
Permit to be
The Housewife in thy low attendance
Contenteth Me—
No Service hast Thou, I would not achieve it—
To die—or live—
The first—Sweet, proved I, ere I saw thee—
For Life—be Love—






What Care The Dead, For Chanticleer

What care the Dead, for Chanticleer-
What care the Dead for Day?
'Tis late your Sunrise vex their face-
And Purple Ribaldry-of Morning
Pour as blank on them
As on the Tier of Wall
The Mason builded, yesterday,
And equally as cool-
What care the Dead for Summer?
The Solstice had no Sun
Could waste the Snow before their Gate-
And knew One Bird a Tune-
Could thrill their Mortised Ear
Of all the Birds that be-
This One-beloved of Mankind
Henceforward cherished be-
What care the Dead for Winter?
Themselves as easy freeze-
June Noon-as January Night-
As soon the South-her Breeze
Of Sycamore-or Cinnamon-
Deposit in a Stone
And put a Stone to keep it Warm-
Give Spices-unto Men-






What Did They Do Since I Saw Them?

What did They do since I saw Them?
Were They industrious?
So many questions to put Them
Have I the eagerness
That could I snatch Their Faces
That could Their lips reply
Not till the last was answered
Should They start for the Sky.
Not if Their Party were waiting,
Not if to talk with Me
Were to Them now, Homesickness
After Eternity.
Not if the Just suspect me
And offer a Reward
Would I restore my Booty
To that Bold Person, God-






What I See Not, I Better See

What I see not, I better see-
Through Faith-my Hazel Eye
Has periods of shutting-
But, No lid has Memory-
For frequent, all my sense obscured
I equally behold
As someone held a light unto
The Features so beloved-And I arise-and in my Dream-
Do Thee distinguished Grace-
Till jealous Daylight interrupt-
And mar thy perfectness-






What If I Say I Shall Not Wait!

What if I say I shall not wait!
What if I burst the fleshly Gate-
And pass escaped-to thee!
What if I file this Mortal-off-
See where it hurt me-That's enough-
And wade in Liberty!
They cannot take me-any more!
Dungeons can call-and Guns implore
Unmeaning-now-to me-
As laughter-was-an hour ago-
Or Laces-or a Travelling Show-
Or who died-yesterday!






What Inn Is This

What Inn is this
Where for the night
Peculiar Traveller comes?
Who is the Landlord?
Where the maids?
Behold, what curious rooms!
No ruddy fires on the hearth-
No brimming Tankards flow-
Necromancer! Landlord!
Who are these below?






What Is—

What is—"Paradise"—
Who live there—
Are they "Farmers"—
Do they "hoe"—
Do they know that this is "Amherst"—
And that I—am coming—too—
Do they wear "new shoes"—in "Eden"—
Is it always pleasant—there—
Won't they scold us—when we're homesick—
Or tell God—how cross we are—
You are sure there's such a person
As "a Father"—in the sky—
So if I get lost—there—ever—
Or do what the Nurse calls "die"—
I shan't walk the "Jasper"—barefoot—
Ransomed folks—won't laugh at me—
Maybe—"Eden" a'n't so lonesome
As New England used to be!






What Shall I Do When The Summer Troubles

What shall I do when the Summer troubles-
What, when the Rose is ripe-
What when the Eggs fly off in Music
From the Maple Keep?
What shall I do when the Skies a'chirrup
Drop a Tune on me-
When the Bee hangs all Noon in the Buttercup
What will become of me?
Oh, when the Squirrel fills His Pockets
And the Berries stare
How can I bear their jocund Faces
Thou from Here, so far?
'Twouldn't afflict a Robin-
All His Goods have Wings-
I-do not fly, so wherefore
My Perennial Things?






What Shall I Do—it Whimpers So

What shall I do—it whimpers so—
This little Hound within the Heart
All day and night with bark and start—
And yet, it will not go—
Would you untie it, were you me—
Would it stop whining—if to Thee—
I sent it—even now?
It should not tease you—
By your chair—or, on the mat—
Or if it dare—to climb your dizzy knee—
Or—sometimes at your side to run—
When you were willing—
Shall it come?
Tell Carlo—
He'll tell me!






What Soft—cherubic Creatures

What Soft—Cherubic Creatures—
These Gentlewomen are—
One would as soon assault a Plush—
Or violate a Star—
Such Dimity Convictions—
A Horror so refined
Of freckled Human Nature—
Of Deity—ashamed—
It's such a common—Glory—
A Fisherman's—Degree—
Redemption—Brittle Lady—
Be so—ashamed of Thee—






What Would I Give To See His Face?

What would I give to see his face?
I'd give-I'd give my life-of course-
But that is not enough!
Stop just a minute-let me think!
I'd give my biggest Bobolink!
That makes two-Him-and Life!
You know who "June" is-
I'd give her-
Roses a day from Zanzibar-
And Lily tubes-like Wells-
Bees-by the furlong-
Straits of Blue
Navies of Butterflies-sailed thro'-
And dappled Cowslip Dells-
Then I have "shares" in Primrose "Banks"-
Daffodil Dowries-spicy "Stocks"-
Dominions-broad as Dew-
Bags of Doublons-adventurous Bees
Brought me-from firmamental seas-
And Purple-from Peru-
Now-have I bought it-
"Shylock"? Say!
Sign me the Bond!
"I vow to pay
To Her-who pledges this-
One hour-of her Sovereign's face"!
Ecstatic Contract!
Niggard Grace!
My Kingdom's worth of Bliss!






When a Lover is a Beggar

When a Lover is a BeggarAbject is his Knee -When a Lover is an OwnerDifferent is he -What he begged is then the Beggar -Oh disparity -Bread of Heaven resents bestowalLike an obloquy -





When Bells Stop Ringing—church—begins

When Bells stop ringing—Church—begins
The Positive—of Bells—
When Cogs—stop—that's Circumference—
The Ultimate—of Wheels.






When Diamonds Are A Legend

When Diamonds are a Legend,
And Diadems-a Tale-
I Brooch and Earrings for Myself,
Do sow, and Raise for sale-
And tho' I'm scarce accounted,
My Art, a Summer Day-had Patrons-
Once-it was a Queen-
And once-a Butterfly-






When I Count The Seeds

When I count the seeds
That are sown beneath,
To bloom so, bye and bye-
When I con the people
Lain so low,
To be received as high-
When I believe the garden
Mortal shall not see-
Pick by faith its blossom
And avoid its Bee,
I can spare this summer, unreluctantly.






When I Have Seen The Sun Emerge

When I have seen the Sun emerge
From His amazing House-
And leave a Day at every Door
A Deed, in every place-
Without the incident of Fame
Or accident of Noise-
The Earth has seemed to me a Drum,
Pursued of little Boys






When I Hoped, I Recollect

When I hoped, I recollect
Just the place I stood-
At a Window facing West-
Roughest Air-was good-
Not a Sleet could bite me-
Not a frost could cool-
Hope it was that kept me warm-
Not Merino shawl-
When I feared-I recollect
Just the Day it was-
Worlds were lying out to Sun-
Yet how Nature froze-
Icicles upon my soul
Prickled Blue and Cool-
Bird went praising everywhere-
Only Me-was still-
And the Day that I despaired-
This-if I forget
Nature will-that it be Night
After Sun has set-
Darkness intersect her face-
And put out her eye-
Nature hesitate-before
Memory and I-






When I Was Small, A Woman Died

When I was small, a Woman died-
Today-her Only Boy
Went up from the Potomac-
His face all Victory
To look at her-How slowly
The Seasons must have turned
Till Bullets clipt an Angle
And He passed quickly round-
If pride shall be in Paradise-
Ourself cannot decide-
Of their imperial Conduct-
No person testified-
But, proud in Apparition-
That Woman and her Boy
Pass back and forth, before my Brain
As even in the sky-
I'm confident that Bravoes-
Perpetual break abroad
For Braveries, remote as this
In Scarlet Maryland-






When Katie Walks, This Simple Pair Accompany Her
Side

When Katie walks, this simple pair accompany her side,
When Katie runs unwearied they follow on the road,
When Katie kneels, their loving hands still clasp her pious knee-
Ah! Katie! Smile at Fortune, with two so knit to thee!






When Memory is full

When Memory is fullPut on the perfect Lid -This Morning's finest syllablePresumptuous Evening said -





When Night Is Almost Done

When Night is almost done-
And Sunrise grows so near
That we can touch the Spaces-
It's time to smooth the Hair-
And get the Dimples ready-
And wonder we could care
For that old-faded Midnight-
That frightened-but an Hour-






When One Has Given Up One's Life

When One has given up One's life
The parting with the rest
Feels easy, as when Day lets go
Entirely the West
The Peaks, that lingered last
Remain in Her regret
As scarcely as the Iodine
Upon the Cataract.






When Roses Cease To Bloom, Sir

When Roses cease to bloom, Sir,
And Violets are done-
When Bumblebees in solemn flight
Have passed beyond the Sun-
The hand that paused to gather
Upon this Summer's day
Will idle lie-in Auburn-
Then take my flowers-pray!






When The Astronomer Stops Seeking

When the Astronomer stops seeking
For his Pleiad's Face-
When the lone British Lady
Forsakes the Arctic Race
When to his Covenant Needle
The Sailor doubting turns-
It will be amply early
To ask what treason means.






When We Stand On The Tops Of Things

When we stand on the tops of Things-
And like the Trees, look down-
The smoke all cleared away from it-
And Mirrors on the scene-
Just laying light-no soul will wink
Except it have the flaw-
The Sound ones, like the Hills-shall stand-
No Lighting, scares away-
The Perfect, nowhere be afraid-
They bear their dauntless Heads,
Where others, dare not go at Noon,
Protected by their deeds-
The Stars dare shine occasionally
Upon a spotted World-
And Suns, go surer, for their Proof,
As if an Axle, held-






Where Bells No More Affright The Morn

Where bells no more affright the morn-
Where scrabble never comes-
Where very nimble Gentlemen
Are forced to keep their rooms-
Where tired Children placid sleep
Thro' Centuries of noon
This place is Bliss-this town is Heaven-
Please, Pater, pretty soon!
"Oh could we climb where Moses stood,
And view the Landscape o'er"
Not Father's bells-nor Factories,
Could scare us any more!






Where I Have Lost, I Softer Tread

Where I have lost, I softer tread-
I sow sweet flower from garden bed-
I pause above that vanished head
And mourn.
Whom I have lost, I pious guard
From accent harsh, or ruthless word-
Feeling as if their pillow heard,
Though stone!
When I have lost, you'll know by this-
A Bonnet black-A dusk surplice-
A little tremor in my voice
Like this!
Why, I have lost, the people know
Who dressed in flocks of purest snow
Went home a century ago
Next Bliss!






Where Ships Of Purple—gently Toss

Where Ships of Purple—gently toss—
On Seas of Daffodil—
Fantastic Sailors—mingle—
And then—the Wharf is still!






Where Thou Art—that—is Home

Where Thou art—that—is Home—
Cashmere—or Calvary—the same—
Degree—or Shame—
I scarce esteem Location's Name—
So I may Come—
What Thou dost—is Delight—
Bondage as Play—be sweet—
Imprisonment—Content—
And Sentence—Sacrament—
Just We two—meet—
Where Thou art not—is Woe—
Tho' Bands of Spices—row—
What Thou dost not—Despair—
Tho' Gabriel—praise me—Sire—






Whether My Bark Went Down At Sea

Whether my bark went down at sea-
Whether she met with gales-
Whether to isles enchanted
She bent her docile sails-
By what mystic mooring
She is held today-
This is the errand of the eye
Out upon the Bay.






Whether they have forgotten
Whether they have forgotten
Or are forgetting now
Or never remembered Safer not to know Miseries of conjecture
Are a softer woe
Than a Fact of Iron
Hardened with I know 





While Asters-

While Asters-
On the Hill-
Their Everlasting fashions-set-
And Covenant Gentians-Frill!






While It Is Alive

While it is alive
Until Death touches it
While it and I lap one Air
Dwell in one Blood
Under one Sacrament
Show me Division can split or pare-
Love is like Life-merely longer
Love is like Death, during the Grave
Love is the Fellow of the Resurrection
Scooping up the Dust and chanting "Live"!






Who Court Obtain Within Himself

Who Court obtain within Himself
Sees every Man a King-
And Poverty of Monarchy
Is an interior thing-
No Man depose
Whom Fate Ordain-
And Who can add a Crown
To Him who doth continual
Conspire against His Own






Who Giants Know, With Lesser Men

Who Giants know, with lesser Men
Are incomplete, and shy-
For Greatness, that is ill at ease
In minor Company-
A Smaller, could not be perturbed-
The Summer Gnat displays-
Unconscious that his single Fleet
Do not comprise the skies-






Who Never Lost, Are Unprepared

Who never lost, are unprepared
A Coronet to find!
Who never thirsted
Flagons, and Cooling Tamarind!
Who never climbed the weary league-
Can such a foot explore
The purple territories
On Pizarro's shore?
How many Legions overcome-
The Emperor will say?
How many Colors taken
On Revolution Day?
How many Bullets bearest?
Hast Thou the Royal scar?
Angels! Write "Promoted"
On this Soldier's brow!






Who Occupies This House?

Who occupies this House?
A Stranger I must judge
Since No one know His Circumstance-
'Tis well the name and age
Are writ upon the Door
Or I should fear to pause
Where not so much as Honest Dog
Approach encourages.
It seems a curious Town-
Some Houses very old,
Some-newly raised this Afternoon,
Were I compelled to build
It should not be among
Inhabitants so still
But where the Birds assemble
And Boys were possible.
Before Myself was born
'Twas settled, so they say,
A Territory for the Ghosts-
And Squirrels, formerly.
Until a Pioneer, as
Settlers often do
Liking the quiet of the Place
Attracted more unto-
And from a Settlement
A Capital has grown
Distinguished for the gravity
Of every Citizen.
The Owner of this House
A Stranger He must be-





Eternity's Acquaintances
Are mostly so-to me.






Who Were 'The Father And The Son'
Who were 'the Father and the Son'
We pondered when a child,
And what had they to do with us
And when portentous told
With inference appalling
By Childhood fortified
We thought, at least they are no worse
Than they have been described.
Who are 'the Father and the Son'
Did we demand Today
'The Father and the Son' himself
Would doubtless specify But had they the felicity
When we desired to know.
We better Friends had been, perhaps,
Than time ensue to be We start - to learn that we believe
But once - entirely Belief, it does not fit so well
When altered frequently We blush, that Heaven if we achieve Event ineffable We shall have shunned until ashamed
To own the Miracle 





Whole Gulfs - of Red, and Fleets
Whole Gulfs - of Red, and Fleets - of Red And Crews - of solid Blood Did place upon the West - Tonight As 'twere specific Ground And They - appointed Creatures In Authorized Arrays Due - promptly - as a Drama That bows - and disappears 





Whose Are The Little Beds, I Asked

Whose are the little beds, I asked
Which in the valleys lie?
Some shook their heads, and others smiled-
And no one made reply.
Perhaps they did not hear, I said,
I will inquire again-
Whose are the beds-the tiny beds
So thick upon the plain?
'Tis Daisy, in the shortest-
A little further on-
Nearest the door-to wake the Ist-
Little Leontoden.
'Tis Iris, Sir, and Aster-
Anemone, and Bell-
Bartsia, in the blanket red-
And chubby Daffodil.
Meanwhile, at many cradles
Her busy foot she plied-
Humming the quaintest lullaby
That ever rocked a child.
Hush! Epigea wakens!
The Crocus stirs her lids-
Rhodora's cheek is crimson,
She's dreaming of the woods!
Then turning from them reverent-
Their bedtime 'tis, she said-
The Bumble bees will wake them
When April woods are red.






Whose Cheek Is This?

Whose cheek is this?
What rosy face
Has lost a blush today?
I found her-"pleiad"-in the woods
And bore her safe away.
Robins, in the tradition
Did cover such with leaves,
But which the cheek-
And which the pall
My scrutiny deceives.






Whose Pink career may have a close

Whose Pink career may have a close
Portentous as our own, who knows?
To imitate these Neighbors fleet
In awe and innocence, were meet.






Why Do I Love You, Sir?
"Why do I love" You, Sir?
Because—
The Wind does not require the Grass
To answer—Wherefore when He pass
She cannot keep Her place.
Because He knows—and
Do not You—
And We know not—
Enough for Us
The Wisdom it be so—
The Lightning—never asked an Eye
Wherefore it shut—when He was by—
Because He knows it cannot speak—
And reasons not contained—
—Of Talk—
There be—preferred by Daintier Folk—
The Sunrise—Sire—compelleth Me—
Because He's Sunrise—and I see—
Therefore—Then—
I love Thee—






Why Do They Shut Me Out of Heaven?

Why—do they shut Me out of Heaven?
Did I sing—too loud?
But—I can say a little 'Minor'
Timid as a Bird!
Wouldn't the Angels try me—
Just—once—more—
Just—see—if I troubled them—
But don't—shut the door!
Oh, if I—were the Gentleman
In the 'White Robe'—
And they—were the little Hand—that knocked—
Could—I—forbid?






Why Make It Doubt—it Hurts It So

Why make it doubt—it hurts it so—
So sick—to guess—
So strong—to know—
So brave—upon its little Bed
To tell the very last They said
Unto Itself—and smile—And shake—
For that dear—distant—dangerous—Sake—
But—the Instead—the Pinching fear
That Something—it did do—or dare—
Offend the Vision—and it flee—
And They no more remember me—
Nor ever turn to tell me why—
Oh, Master, This is Misery—






Wild Nights! Wild Nights!

Wild Nights! Wild Nights!
Were I with thee,
Wild Nights should be
Our luxury!
Futile the winds
To a heart in port, -Done with the compass,
Done with the chart!
Rowing in Eden!
Ah! the sea!
Might I but moor
To-night in Thee!






Will There Really Be A "Morning"?

Will there really be a "Morning"?
Is there such a thing as "Day"?
Could I see it from the mountains
If I were as tall as they?
Has it feet like Water lilies?
Has it feathers like a Bird?
Is it brought from famous countries
Of which I have never heard?
Oh some Scholar! Oh some Sailor!
Oh some Wise Men from the skies!
Please to tell a little Pilgrim
Where the place called "Morning" lies!






Witchcraft Has Not A Pedigree

Witchcraft has not a pedigree,
‘Tis early as our breath,
And mourners meet it going out
The moment of our death.






Witchcraft Was Hung, In History

'Twas such a little - little boat
That toddled down the bay!
'Twas such a gallant - gallant sea
That beckoned it away!
'Twas such a greedy, greedy wave
That licked it from the Coast Nor ever guessed the stately sails
My little craft was lost!






With A Flower
I hide myself within my flower,
That wearing on your breast,
You, unsuspecting, wear me too And angels know the rest.
I hide myself within my flower,
That, fading from your vase,
You, unsuspecting, feel for me
Almost a loneliness.






With Thee, In The Desert

With thee, in the Desert-
With thee in the thirst-
With thee in the Tamarind wood-
Leopard breathes-at last!






Within My Garden, Rides A Bird

Within my Garden, rides a Bird
Upon a single Wheel-
Whose spokes a dizzy Music make
As 'twere a travelling Mill-
He never stops, but slackens
Above the Ripest Rose-
Partakes without alighting
And praises as he goes,
Till every spice is tasted-
And then his Fairy Gig
Reels in remoter atmospheres-
And I rejoin my Dog,
And He and I, perplex us
If positive, 'twere we-
Or bore the Garden in the Brain
This Curiosity-
But He, the best Logician,
Refers my clumsy eye-
To just vibrating Blossoms!
An Exquisite Reply!






Within My Reach!

Within my reach!
I could have touched!
I might have chanced that way!
Soft sauntered thro' the village-
Sauntered as soft away!
So unsuspected Violets
Within the meadows go-
Too late for striving fingers
That passed, an hour ago!






Without This—there Is Nought

Without this—there is nought—
All other Riches be
As is the Twitter of a Bird—
Heard opposite the Sea—
I could not care—to gain
A lesser than the Whole—
For did not this include themself—
As Seams—include the Ball?
I wished a way might be
My Heart to subdivide—
'Twould magnify—the Gratitude—
And not reduce—the Gold—






Wolfe Demanded During Dying

Wolfe demanded during dying
"Which obtain the Day"?
"General, the British"-"Easy"
Answered Wolfe "to die"
Montcalm, his opposing Spirit
Rendered with a smile
"Sweet" said he "my own Surrender
Liberty's beguile"






Woodpecker, The
His bill an auger is,
His head, a cap and frill.
He laboreth at every tree,-A worm his utmost goal.






work For Immortality

Some—Work for Immortality—
The Chiefer part, for Time—
He—Compensates—immediately—
The former—Checks—on Fame—
Slow Gold—but Everlasting—
The Bullion of Today—
Contrasted with the Currency
Of Immortality—
A Beggar—Here and There—
Is gifted to discern
Beyond the Broker's insight—
One's—Money—One's—the Mine—






Would You Like Summer? Taste Of Ours

Would you like summer? Taste of ours.
Spices? Buy here!
Ill! We have berries, for the parching!
Weary! Furloughs of down!
Perplexed! Estates of violet trouble ne'er looked on!
Captive! We bring reprieve of roses!
Fainting! Flasks of air!
Even for Death, a fairy medicine.
But, which is it, sir?






Yesterday Is History
Yesterday is History,
'Tis so far away Yesterday is Poetry 'Tis Philosophy Yesterday is mystery Where it is Today
While we shrewdly speculate
Flutter both away






You Cannot Put A Fire Out

You cannot put a Fire out-
A Thing that can ignite
Can go, itself, without a Fan-
Upon the slowest Night-
You cannot fold a Flood-
And put it in a Drawer-
Because the Winds would find it out-
And tell your Cedar Floor-






You Constituted Time

You constituted Time-
I deemed Eternity
A Revelation of Yourself-
'Twas therefore Deity
The Absolute-removed
The Relative away-
That I unto Himself adjust
My slow idolatry-






You Know That Portrait In The Moon

You know that Portrait in the Moon-
So tell me who 'tis like-
The very Brow-the stooping eyes-
A fog for-Say-Whose Sake?
The very Pattern of the Cheek-
It varies-in the Chin-
But-Ishmael-since we met-'tis long-
And fashions-intervene-
When Moon's at full-'Tis Thou-I say-
My lips just hold the name-
When crescent-Thou art worn-I note-
But-there-the Golden Same-
And when-Some Night-Bold-slashing Clouds
Cut Thee away from Me-
That's easier-than the other film
That glazes Holiday-






You left me—Sire—two Legacies

You left me—Sire—two Legacies—
A Legacy of Love
A Heavenly Father would suffice
Had He the offer of—
You left me Boundaries of Pain—
Capacious as the Sea—
Between Eternity and Time—
Your Consciousness—and Me—






You Love Me—you Are Sure

You love me—you are sure—
I shall not fear mistake—
I shall not cheated wake—
Some grinning morn—
To find the Sunrise left—
And Orchards—unbereft—
And Dollie—gone!
I need not start—you're sure—
That night will never be—
When frightened—home to Thee I run—
To find the windows dark—
And no more Dollie—mark—
Quite none?
Be sure you're sure—you know—
I'll bear it better now—
If you'll just tell me so—
Than when—a little dull Balm grown—
Over this pain of mine—
You sting—again!






You Love The Lord—you Cannot See

You love the Lord—you cannot see—
You write Him—every day—
A little note—when you awake—
And further in the Day.
An Ample Letter—How you miss—
And would delight to see—
But then His House—is but a Step—
And Mine's—in Heaven—You see.






You Said That I

You said that I "was Great"—one Day—
Then "Great" it be—if that please Thee—
Or Small—or any size at all—
Nay—I'm the size suit Thee—
Tall—like the Stag—would that?
Or lower—like the Wren—
Or other heights of Other Ones
I've seen?
Tell which—it's dull to guess—
And I must be Rhinoceros
Or Mouse—
At once—for Thee—
So say—if Queen it be—
Or Page—please Thee—
I'm that—or nought—
Or other thing—if other thing there be—
With just this Stipulus—
I suit Thee—






You See I Cannot See—your Lifetime

You see I cannot see—your lifetime—
I must guess—
How many times it ache for me—today—Confess—
How many times for my far sake
The brave eyes film—
But I guess guessing hurts—
Mine—got so dim!
Too vague—the face—
My own—so patient—covers—
Too far—the strength—
My timidness enfolds—
Haunting the Heart—
Like her translated faces—
Teasing the want—
It—only—can suffice!






You Taught Me Waiting With Myself

You taught me Waiting with Myself—
Appointment strictly kept—
You taught me fortitude of Fate—
This—also—I have learnt—
An Altitude of Death, that could
No bitterer debar
Than Life—had done—before it—
Yet—there is a Science more—
The Heaven you know—to understand
That you be not ashamed
Of Me—in Christ's bright Audience
Upon the further Hand—






You'Ll Find—it When You Try To Die

You'll find—it when you try to die—
The Easier to let go—
For recollecting such as went—
You could not spare—you know.
And though their places somewhat filled—
As did their Marble names
With Moss—they never grew so full—
You chose the newer names—
And when this World—sets further back—
As Dying—say it does—
The former love—distincter grows—
And supersedes the fresh—
And Thought of them—so fair invites—
It looks too tawdry Grace
To stay behind—with just the Toys
We bought—to ease their place—






You'Ll Know Her—by Her Foot

You'll know Her—by Her Foot—
The smallest Gamboge Hand
With Fingers—where the Toes should be—
Would more affront the Sand—
Than this Quaint Creature's Boot—
Adjusted by a Stern—
Without a Button—I could vouch—
Unto a Velvet Limb—
You'll know Her—by Her Vest—
Tight fitting—Orange—Brown—
Inside a Jacket duller—
She wore when she was born—
Her Cap is small—and snug—
Constructed for the Winds—
She'd pass for Barehead—short way off—
But as She Closer stands—
So finer 'tis than Wool—
You cannot feel the Seam—
Nor is it Clasped unto of Band—
Nor held upon—of Brim—
You'll know Her—by Her Voice—
At first—a doubtful Tone—
A sweet endeavor—but as March
To April—hurries on—
She squanders on your Ear
Such Arguments of Pearl—
You beg the Robin in your Brain
To keep the other—still—






You'Ll Know It—as You Know 'Tis Noon

You'll know it—as you know 'tis Noon—
By Glory—
As you do the Sun—
By Glory—
As you will in Heaven—
Know God the Father—and the Son.
By intuition, Mightiest Things
Assert themselves—and not by terms—
"I'm Midnight"—need the Midnight say—
"I'm Sunrise"—Need the Majesty?
Omnipotence—had not a Tongue—
His listp—is Lightning—and the Sun—
His Conversation—with the Sea—
"How shall you know"?
Consult your Eye!






Your Riches—taught Me—poverty

Your Riches—taught me—Poverty.
Myself—a Millionaire
In little Wealths, as Girls could boast
Till broad as Buenos Ayre—
You drifted your Dominions—
A Different Peru—
And I esteemed All Poverty
For Life's Estate with you—
Of Mines, I little know—myself—
But just the names, of Gems—
The Colors of the Commonest—
And scarce of Diadems—
So much, that did I meet the Queen—
Her Glory I should know—
But this, must be a different Wealth—
To miss it—beggars so—
I'm sure 'tis India—all Day—
To those who look on You—
Without a stint—without a blame,
Might I—but be the Jew—
I'm sure it is Golconda—
Beyond my power to deem—
To have a smile for Mine—each Day,
How better, than a Gem!
At least, it solaces to know
That there exists—a Gold—
Altho' I prove it, just in time
Its distance—to behold—
Its far—far Treasure to surmise—
And estimate the Pearl—





That slipped my simple fingers through—
While just a Girl at School.






You'Re Right—

You're right—"the way is narrow"—
And "difficult the Gate"—
And "few there be"—Correct again—
That "enter in—thereat"—
'Tis Costly—So are purples!
'Tis just the price of Breath—
With but the "Discount" of the Grave—
Termed by the Brokers—"Death"!
And after that—there's Heaven—
The Good Man's—"Dividend"—
And Bad Men—"go to Jail"—
I guess—












Oh Kukulkhan the Mayan god,
did make the cornstalks grow.
And if you slaughtered lots of folks,
he'd be beneficent below.
Then in the can of Kukulkhan,
a long long time ago,
an old Mayan poked a feather,
for a chuckle, don't you know.
The feather was a frilly thing,
but proved much more than show.
For it tickled kukul's fancy,
when the Mayan winds did blow.
This was written in the codex,
and some scholars think it so,
that the feather ticked ol Kukul
off.
That's why the Mayans had to go.






A Different Drummer
I marched to a different drummer,
we marched round quite a bit.
Upon my soul, his drum did roll,
as we marched into the pit.
I marched to a different drummer.
His cause I did extol.
Now he's climed out on top of me,
and left the drum down in the hole.






A Little Nap
When I awoke this morning,
the sun was in my eyes,
and life called through the window,
Come try me on for size! 
But I was still quite sleepy,
and turned my face away,
It's just a little nap I need.
There's lots of time to play.
The noonday sun was awfully warm.
Much cooler where I lay.
It's just a little nap I need,
I still have time to play.
Evening found me ready,
but somehow time had slipped away.
It's funny how a little nap,
can last the entire day.






A Magnificent Haiku
He who seeks the wind.
Must go to the land of beans.
There he shall find it.






All Too Soon
My love and I went dancing,
on the dark side of the moon.
But there the light, was much too bright,
so we stayed till all too soon.
We strolled along the milky way,
on that balmy night in June.
But there the air was much too rare,
so we stayed till all too soon.
We stopped for tea on Saturn,
with our celestial cup and spoon.
But there our things, spun off the rings,
so we stayed till all too soon.
My love she turned and said to me,
Oh my, how late the hour!
Shall we return back home my dear,
to our humble earthy bower? 
Oh yes! , says I, with starry eye,
and as we passed the moon,
Perhaps we'll come tomorrow night,
and stay till all too soon.






Alleasyum
Alleasyum, Alleasyum,
I sure do wish I had me some.
It takes the cake, it cleans the pool,
it keeps your moustache looking cool,
it sends the dropout back to school.
Alleasyum.
It picks your nose, it sorts your mail,
it puts the wind back in your sail,
it even dusts the dusty trail.
Alleasyum
It beats the band, reduces sludge,
it bakes a fairly decent fudge,
it hardly ever holds a grudge.
Alleasyum.
It shines the shoe, unsticks the stuck,
it fixes flats on car or truck,
it grows hair on a rubber duck.
Alleasyum
It calms the nerve, it dries the tear,
it blows the wax out of your ear,
it makes your cat abstain from beer.
Alleasyum.
Alleasyum, Alleasyum,
I sure do wish I had me some.






An Epic Verse
I went out in the morning,
went out in the dew.
Stepped in an epic,
and it stuck to my shoe.
I ran in a circle,
Oh my what to do,
with this pesky old epic,
now sticking like glue.
I went to the wise man,
to see if might be,
relief for the epic,
the shoe, and for me.
He said, Settle down!
Walk softly with care,
for epics are precious,
and epics are rare.
You've come for advice,
so here's what to do,
watch where you're going,
stay out of the dew.
My council is free,
as free as can be.
But I need something to read,
so the shoe stays with me.






Apologies To Shelley A Travesty
Boofalootabiffutus.
Far greater was he,
than the rest of the lot of us.
Boofalootabiffitus.
His empire stretched both far and wide.
So wide it only had one side.
Boofalootabiffitus.
Yet his empire is covered by wind and the sand.
The legend is lost, no plaques or monuments stand.
Oh what a great loss, and what a great shame,
but who in the world could remember that name?
Boofalootabiffitus,
Boofalootabiffitus.






Apologies To Tennyson..A Travesty
Beyond the tethered sheaves of barley,
she sent me and cousin Charlie.
Beyond where Lancelot had ridden,
into the farmer's fields unbidden.
There to fetch on home an onion,
to make a poultice for her bunion.
We gathered here, we gathered there,
in abandon wild, without a care.
We filled a sack up to complete.
With various veggies'twas replete.
At first me lady seemed quite thrilled,
but then her sweet demeanor chilled.
For in the sack she found no onion,
for remission of her bunion.
A likely tuber I held high,
Doth this thing not suit the eye?
I say to you, this thing will do.
No need to vote and count the ballot.
What you see, is what you got.
Just shut up and use the Shallot.






Appalachian Ladies
And the sweet mountain girls.
Those of gentle glances.
Mona Lisa smiles.
Bright rivers of hair.
Cascading to the small of the back.
Patiently, pensively brushed, morning and night.
The poorest, having no perfume,
a touch of vanilla behind each ear.
The stain of wild cherries, upon soft lips.
To feel more feminine, more lovely.
Necessary only to themselves.
Angels in cotton dresses.
Perfection.






Arrows
Some words are like arrows,
loosed in the dark, out of hand.
Not to know who they'll strike.
Not to know where they'll land.






Ars Gratia Artis
Off to the museum of art we go,
with she in front and me in tow.
Absorb some culture, see the show!
She stands before some framed mish mash,
that seems to me a plate of
hash.
Look closely at this painting
dear,
do you see deep meaning here? 
I stand and gaze professorial
style,
with stifled laughter, stifled
smile.
I poke my finger in the air,
with a critical look, and a critical flair.
It's the product of a masters hand.
Primordial dawn in a primordial land.
The offering of some cosmic mind,
chaos complete, yet well defined.
The music of a soul in pain,
yet a symphony of sweet refrain.
A vison of perdition's maw.
Or perhaps he simply couldn't draw.






At Table
I sit alone at table,
at a place self pity has set.
To gnaw old dry and dusty thoughts,
that taste much of regret.
I sit alone at table,
at a place self pity has set.
Trying hard to remember,
all the things I want to forget.






Au Contraire
I can't recall the story,
I remember it quite well.
And since there is no story,
it's a story I will tell.
It was a dark and stormy night,
the skies were bright and clear,
as we a cask of wine unstopped,
to have a glass of beer.
Silver were the golden hues,
of spring that winter's day,
and when I saw her leaving,
I knew she'd come to stay.
We've grown to loathe each other,
we have a love both fine and rare,
and since she's always with me,
I can't find her anywhere.






Bannenir
As I set out for Bannenir,
the night was dark, the night was drear.
The night the deepest of the year,
as I set out for Bannenir.
And the spirits rose above the spires,
their voices cold ancestral fires.
If you go forth, then you may find,
what lies ahead still lies behind,
and what seems far, just could be near,
on the road to Bannenir.
Steel the soul ere you depart,
the road leads straightway through the heart.
You will become what you most fear,
on the road to Bannenir.
So, clad in princely armor bright,
sword held aloft against the night,
the night the deepest of the year,
I set out for Bannenir.
I timeless traveled far and near,
without a guide, a star, a seer,
each cobblestone a bitter tear,
on the road to Bannenir.
Hope had long since gone to dust.
The sword and armor gone to rust.
It was the waning of the year,
when at last I came to Bannenir.
And the spirits rose above the spires.
Their voices warm ancestral fires.
So long to wander, lost, alone,
to seek a truth you have always known.
Forgiveness sweet, redemption near.
The day the brightest of the year.
Welcome back to Bannenir.






Beans
Then Mama said,
'Don't put a bean in your ear.'.
She said it quite loud,
said it right in my ear.
Now, I'd never thought,
to put a bean in my ear,
until Mama said,
'Don't put a bean in your ear.'.
Now she's saying something,
that isn't too clear.
I can't hear her that well,
there's a bean in my ear.






Blossoms
Who shall stay the morning,
when blossoms open to the sun?
Who shall stay the passing day,
the blossoms every one?
Who shall stay the evening,
or the timely blossoms fall,
in the orchard on the hillside,
there beyond the garden wall?
Go and love the morning.
Love the day, come rain or sun.
Go and love the evening.
Love the blossoms every one.






Bubble Bath Sea
I was the captain,
rubber Ducky was mate,
when Mom cried,  All aboard! ,
every Saturday late.
Then away we would sail,
faithful Duckey and me,
away we would sail,
on a bubble bath sea.
We coursed all the inlets,
explored all the coves.
Sea monsters and pirates,
we defeated in droves.
We rode out the tempests,
every maelstrom and storm,
and strayed far from port,
while the water was warm.
These times are long over,
times are not as before,
and now Ducky my mate,
is tucked away in a drawer.
But if I ever have children,
if a child there might be,
we'll have a new captain,
and aboard will be three.






Buford
I chanced to meet old Buford,
who looked at me and grinned.
I shook his wrinkled hand and asked,
How are you my friend? 
He said, They tell me I've been better,
but I cant recall just when,
for it's best to think on here and now;
not what was, or might have been.






Bug
She wanted to live in the forest.
Be free and be one with the land.
Eat apples and cherries and gumgums.
These things would just fall in her hand.
The wildlife would gather around her.
She would kiss them and have a group hug.
She wanted to live in the forest.
Until she got bit by a bug.






Bust In The Garden
I'm stuck here in the garden.
I watch the flowers come and go.
I wish they'd turn me just a bit,
so I could see another show.
It seems they have abandoned me.
I don't much care for that.
The sun is getting awfully hot.
They could at least give me a
hat.
But looking on the brighter
side.
Just being fair and square.
Although I'll always be a bust,
I'll save a ton on underwear.






Caladis
In Aldelon, fell dragon's keep,
Caladis lay, but did not sleep.
His heart was as the hearts of men.
Fire banked, but bright within.
He smouldered there, and all alone,
upon the pain and grief he'd sown.
Yet anxious still, he was for flight,
to slip his bonds, and shred the night.
In Aldelon, fell dragon's keep,
Caladis lay, but did not sleep.






Caledon
Two moons do lie off Caledon,
hung in a yellow sky.
The wind blows cold down the Insit vale,
where the Yolon flows swift by.
Two lovers dwell in Caledon,
on Yolon's banks, on either side,
and they will never ever meet,
across the Yolon wild and wide.
Two lovers dwell in Caledon,
who stand beside the rushing stream,
and cast their hearts into the mist,
where true love is but a dream.
Two lovers dwell in Caledon,
two bells that cannot ring.
For they listen, never hearing,
the love songs others sing.
Two lovers dwell in Caledon,
and beneath a yellow sky,
they will never ever meet,
yet the Yolon still flows by.






Canyons
In the canyons of my mind,
I searched to see what I might find,
in the canyons of my mind.
And some things there, I found, I find,
were better left untouched,
behind,
in the canyons of my mind.






Carnivores
He was younger and taller,
dressed nicer than me,
as I went in the store,
for some smokes and some tea.
Then when I came out,
He was waiting you bet,
and he said kinda loud,
Hey man, you got a cigarette? 
I said, No thanks, I'm all good.
Got a pack as you see.
But I'm grateful for sure.
Thanks for thinking about me.






Carpe Astrum
Young folk think to live forever.
At least I thought that way.
I saw my days as countless stars,
lined up in bright array.
Young folk think to live forever.
At least I thought that way.
Endless on were my tomorrows.
It seemed no harm to waste today.
Young folk think to live forever.
At least I thought that way.
Until my stars became bright fleeting birds,
I could not persuade to stay.






Cast Away
Behold the perfidy of sky,
in roiling hosts clouds legions fly.
Bring the thunder, shake the soul,
let the drums of heaven roll.
Lash the wind, and lightning play.
Cast away, oh cast away!
Into the storm now, struggle, strive.
With each moment be alive.
We have the garden but a day.
Cast away, oh cast away!






Cayuse
From riding a rowdy cayuse,
old tenderfoot has bruised his caboose.
All the saddle bumped inta,
turned sorta mauve and magenta,
and his giddyup a lovely chartreuse.






Celebrity
When I see me I get all inspired.
It's a wonder I'm not more admired.
On a pedestal high I should be,
turning slow for the faithful to see.
Then should I belch or pass gas,
I'd cry, How rude and how crass! ,
and the world a contrite, Pardon me! 






Charlie And Smiley
Smiley was a mongrel dog,
Charlie a lonely boy,
so the fates threw them together,
to share life's trials and joys.
Always on adventures,
they were wont to rove,
upon the shining hillside,
or in the shadowed grove.
Then an unknown trail they traveled,
Winding wild, hard by a bog,
there to see a thing of evil,
squatting, grinning on a log.
Charlie's heart was filled with terror.
He could not move, or even scream.
He had never seen a thing like this before,
while awake or in a dream.
Smiley was the bolder,
he barked, and he gave chase.
Ran the thing into a thicket,
to disappear without a trace.
That the thing would hurt his Smiley,
was now what Charlie greatly feared,
so he gave a shout of gladness,
when Ol Smiley reappeared.
Later on that evening,
safe and warm in Charlie's room,
soft fingers of the lamplight,
brushed away the deeping gloom.
I'm glad that you were with me.
Good dog, good dog! , young Charlie said,
and the thing that wasn't Smiley,
smiled a smile by Charlie's bed.






Cheese
To rush headlong, just might prove wrong.
Look about with your nose in the breeze.
Things just might be as the old saying goes;
the second mouse gets to eat the cheese.






Choka..Sort Of
Good deeds are water
in a dry and thirsty land
and he shall not thirst,
he who would bring the water
even if he cannot drink






Close Of Day
Before there is the close of day,
before this world you must depart,
try to sow the seed of love,
in the garden of your heart.
Where grows love, grows understanding.
It is a thing God has designed,
that the soul and what you've planted,
in the end shall be entwined.






Coconut Grabs
Wiffilabiffila put out to sea.
Typhooned then marooned,
on an island was he.
Yet he found all he needed,
yes he did, yes siree;
oysters, and fishes, a coconut tree.
But he was lonely and bored,
yes he was, yes siree.
There was not much to do,
on his isle in the sea.
He said through a mouthful of coconut grabs,
Life is ho hum just cavorting with crabs.
Then early one morning,
out with the crabs on a spree,
he spied a young woman,
washed up from the sea.
He rubbed her, and drubbed her,
and twiddled her nose,
until she was huffing and puffing,
and pink as a rose.
Then she hopped all about,
with a tumescent sheen,
shouting, This is my island,
and I am it's queen! 
She said, You have been lazy,
lying about in the shade,
but now there's work to be done,
and there's plans to be made.
She made him sweep all the dunes,
wash and stack all the shells.
She hated disorder,
she didn't like smells
She made him cut back on the coconut grabs,
She made him abstain from cavorting with crabs.
She made life a misery.
Yes she did, yes siree.
He longed for the days,
when he was lonely but free.
Then on the horizon,





a sail did appear.
Both he and the queen,
gave a whoop and a cheer.
She said, I am saved,
I an saved from the sea!
You shall come too,
and my servant you'll be.
Wiffilabiffila said with a wink,
That's just what I thought,
what I thought you would think.
Then he said through a mouthful of coconut grabs,
Have a nice trip.
I'm staying here with the crabs.






Come Softly
Come
Come
Come
Come

softly
softly
softly
softly

love
love
love
love

and timely.
and slow.
and kindly.
will grow.







Comfort
Some find comfort in not knowing;
and the place they'd rather be,
is in the dark, without a spark,
of any truth that they might see.






Common Sense
My common sense is drifting,
on a sea that has no shore.
And since I've never been there,
I don't go much anymore.
If I had a boat I'd find it,
and bring it home with me,
but I have never had a boat,
and I've never seen the sea.
So I guess it's gone forever.
It's lost without a doubt.
But since I've never used it,
there's not much to fuss about.






Conscience
Conscience, O conscience,
with you i've been blessed.
You've flown into my soul,
and there made a nest.
You flitter and flutter,
and perch by my ear,
sometimes singing a truth,
that I don't want to hear.






Constant
Time is but a constant thief,
who comes each night and day,
to steal the things he cannot use,
and then in silence slip away.






Cream And Sugar
I think upon my now ex wife,
who was to me all joy in life.
Still her precious voice I hear,
Would you like some coffee dear? 
Why, yes I would, how sweet of you.
I sure could use a cup of brew.
Then she would say, she had a way,
her eyes that twinkling blue.
Well, since you're going to the kitchen,
bring me a cup back too.






Creek
There are some quaint old adages,
I can't quite understand.
Some seem quite insightful,
and some seem poorly planned.
There is one that comes to mind,
I hear from time to time,
and in the heart of what it says,
an error I can find.
There is no question to decide,
no fence I need to straddle.
For it's up the creek I'd rather be,
than down without a paddle.






Crescendo
Hush the darkness silver light.
The moon sits on my window.
Smiling as she shares her light,
to quell the night's crescendo.






Cup
The moon does tip her silver cup,
to share her light with me.
Perhaps she knows that in the darkness,
lie many dangers we should see.






Daisies
I was a daisy among all the bluebells.
Of this the bluebells made sure I was told.
But I'm having a ball as a daisy.
Being a daisy has never grown old.






Dance
Life is a dance.
So it would seem.
Done by moonlight.
Done in a dream.
Life is a dance.
So it would seem.
Life is moonlight.
Life is a dream.






Death
I see you, and I know you sir.
You would make of me a slave.
You are a slinking, sulking shadow,
that dogs my footsteps to the grave.
And as the sun is sinking low,
on a day of seeming brevity,
it's now your hateful face you
show,
without conscience, without
empathy.
I say I do not love you sir.
You play a game I cannot win.
You would rob me of the things that were,
and all that might have been.
I tell you I despise you sir.
You are a clinging dark depravity.
And I shun your greedy grasping claw,
with disgust and bold temerity.






Decorum
I've lost my way on the road to decorum.
No more polite and contrite infinitum.
So if you don't agree, with some action you see,
talk to the hand, then go sit on a quorum.






Deep
Some say that I am not too deep.
Naive they scoff and chide.
But whosoever tries to cross,
might find me swift and wide.






Do Not Follow
Do not follow, do not follow.
'Twould be unseemly, untoward.
Do not step upon my shadow.
I'm afraid you'll step too hard.
My shadow is my conscience.
My right or wrong, my yes or no.
And he says you should not
follow.
Do not follow where I go.

Do not follow, do not follow.
It would only bring us grief.
For in time you'd be but shadow,
and like time, I'd be a thief.






Ebbins Moor
Have you ever been to Ebbins moor,
as the moon arcs through the sky,
the wee folk dance beneath the stars,
with the sea strand there hard by?
Have you ever been to Ebbins moor,
neath a dark and roiling sky,
as the witch wind moans in the heather,
and you hear the banshee cry?
Have you ever been to Ebbins moor,
neath a bleak and brittle sky,
as the white mist ghosts across the land,
and the unseen about you sigh?
Do not go to Ebbins moor,
but it be noonday not alone,
lest the Fae at last reveal themselves,
and claim you for their own.






Ectomy
When you get old and can't half see,
while shaving you must careful be.
Or like as not, you'll miss a spot,
or perform a wattle ectomy.






El Viejo
My teeth sleep in a water glass,
my hair is falling out,
I have an everlasting hemorrhoid,
the shingles and the gout.
I get lost in my own kitchen,
but find the doorway by and by.
Just to find I'm in another room,
and can't remember why.
I know you think I'm whining,
but just wait you brash young pup.
One day you'll need to go lie down,
if you could just get up.






Empathy
The meat is quite juicy,
tender and pink.
You stuff it on down,
there's no need to think.
Served up with a garnish,
such a fine meal.
It's only just lunch,
if you don't hear it squeal.
How quick we ignore,
refuse and deny,
if we don't see a face,
if we don't hear them cry.
It's not our problem.
There's no need to feel,
if we don't see them fall,
and go under the wheel.






Et
Beneath the bright unearthly strobe,
here comes ET and he's got a probe.
He hasn't come to make war.
He hasn't come to kill or invade us.
He hasn't come to make peace.
He hasn't come to help or to aid us.
The reason he's here,
will soon be perfectly clear.
Hes searching for life on Uranus.






Experience
I must go change my points of view,
on lies that once I thought were true,
in a youthful state of mind.
I hope you will excuse me now;
for I'm quite a bit behind.






Farnsworth
Farnsworth caught the chiggers,
while questing in the fen.
Rubbed each bump and gall with alcohol,
then ran circles in the glen.
The wildlife watched in wonder,
as Farnsworth scampered by.
And from crotch to knees,
he was ill at ease,
as he gave a mournful cry.
The titmouse he took pity,
and said, Give this a try.
Apply a goop of titmouse poop,
you'll feel better by and by.
Yet Farnsworth seemed ungrateful,
and gave forth no reply.
He just ran in itchy circles,
with a whimpered itchy sigh.
This made titmouse angry,
who while leaving on the fly,
did shoot a goop of titmouse poop,
right into Farnsworth's eye.
Now some say he ran to Memphis.
Some say north to old St. Paul.
But I think he's still here with us,
and not left the place at all.
So should you woodland wander,
and hear vague rustlings on the breeze,
it might just be old Farnsworth,
scooting doughnuts through the trees.






Finga
Muldoofus Muldinga Balinga,
got angry and gave life da finga.
To which life in reply,
poked right back in his eye.
Poor Muldoofus Muldinga Balinga.






Flamenco
Long ago a young man from Durango,
smeared habenero sauce on his mango.
Then later that day,
whilst shouting Ole! ,
invented a dance called flamenco.






Flux
In flux is the crux, for aardvarks and ducks.
For all things that wiggle, waddle or fly.
And the earth too is changing, herself rearranging,
as moment by moment goes by.
It's either warm or it's snowing,
calm or it's blowing,
sometimes it's rainy or dry.
There's always coming or going,
wilting or growing,
saying hello then goodbye.
Sometimes life is amusing, confusing, bemusing,
and for its reason we look up at the sky.
Yes, life was designed, by a far greater mind,
and there's a rhyme and a reason to why.
Search your soul and you'll find,
we're here to love and be kind,
and watch the ducks and the aardvarks go by.






Fore
When I must hand pick the driving range,
unprotected by a cage,
it seems that hitting range balls,
of a sudden is the rage.
The other day as I picked range balls,
I heard a duffer say,
I hit the ball like Lee
Trevino,
but I need practice every day.
I'm gonna go and hit some range balls.
Hit em high, and hit em low.
Hook em, thin em, slice em,
I don't care which way they go.
I'll try not to hit that cart boy,
but if I do I just don't care.
Cause cart boys come a dime a dozen,
and have at least one eye to spare.
Well, it's time to pick the range again,
and if that duffer comes today,
I'm gonna go and hit some range balls.
Only back the other way.






Forgiveness
They cried, You're covered with scars,
you poor pitiful thing.
What heartache and misery the memories must bring.
I said, They're only just scars.
Have no pity for me.
They don't hurt a bit.
They're where wounds used to be.






From One Of Granny's Old Jokes
I wanted me a polar bear.
I made a plan both bright and bold.
Then traveled to the frozen north,
where all is raw and cold.
I cut a hole there in the ice.
Cut it right there in the floe,
until I could see the frigid sea,
lying many feet below.
I took a bag of frozen peas,
placed them round the hole just so,
and waited for a bear to come,
which wasn't long you know.
Then there beneath the northern lights,
somewhere near the pole,
when a bear came up to take a pea,
I kicked him square in the ice hole.






Genius
There is a genius of the spirit,
a genius born of old.
A genius more than conscious thought.
A genius of the soul.






Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle
Gentle

come the morning mist.
come the day.
as they come to touch.
as they play.
come my thoughts of you.
come each day.
as they come to touch.
as they stay.







Goldenrod
When it comes that I am gone,
do not mourn the wasted minute.
Live on, live on, embrace the day,
and everything that's in it.
Do not think upon the time,
I passed and lay beneath the pall.
For the bee was on the goldenrod,
as if nothing passed at all.






Goodness
I cannot find the goodness.
I know that it is there.
I cannot find the goodness.
The darkness does not share.
I cannot find the goodness.
It is hidden from my sight.
I cannot find the goodness.
I shall go and find a light.






Guises
Evil comes in many guises,
many forms and shapes and sizes.
Be careful when the heart surmises,
for the heart can deny what the mind apprises.






Haiku
Insults are ripples
Ripples are waves on small seas
There sinking small ships






Haiku 
I gave her flowers
Her smile among the roses
Two bouquets I see






Haiku 
Sweet love of my youth
Sunset last touches the hill
I wait for you there






Haiku 
That sweet sip of wine
I will taste for a lifetime
That sweet sip of you






Haiku 
He who seeks the wind
must go to the land of beans
there he shall find it






Happenstance
I find no peace within the garden,
there among the ordered rows.
In the orchard on the hillside,
there among the sheltered groves.
Only in the seeming happenstance,
that mother nature grows.






Harvest
The grape will come to season.
Time for harvest and the wine.
Yet as there is a ripening,
one still need tend the vine.






Hear
The ear can hear the sound.
The mind can hear the truth.
The heart hears but its own voice.






Hiking
Off she went hiking,
with her friends, just a few,
bird watching for sparrows,
a titmouse or two.
She hugged up a bunny,
then grabbed her a bear.
The bear didn't like it,
but she seemed unaware.
When the bear threw her down,
and proceeded to chew,
she said, My oh my,
would you just look at you!
If I knew you were hungry,
I'd have brought the whole crew.
She said, I'm saving the planet.
It's the right thing to do,
to be returning to nature,
even if as bear poo.






Holes
There's a hole in the boat! ,
I heard someone shout.
I said, Yep, that's a hole,
that's a hole no doubt.
There's a hole in the boat! ,
I heard another one shout.
There's about as much water,
within as without! 
There's no need to worry.
I heard another one shout.
Let's all make a hole,
so the water runs out.






Homespun
Homespun is homespun,
homespun that's all.
Not really in style,
at the masque or the ball.
Some verses are homespun,
pushed aside, to the back,
as if sweet simple words,
depth and eloquence lack.
Yet homespun is sturdy.
It's not easily torn.
Some homespun is lovely,
and by all can be worn.






Hook...A Childrens Verse
The fisherman went to the sea he did,
he did, he did, did he.
To catch a fish, a tasty fish,
tra lo, tra la, tra lee.
He was in a hurry, a dither, a flurry,
he was, he was, was he.
So he could hardly wait, to cast his bait,
tra lo, tra la, tra lee.
He felt a tug on the end of his line,
he did, he did, did he.
But when he pulled it back to shore,
there was no fish to see, to see,
there was no fish to see.
A fish rose up in the water,
he did, he did, did he,
and said, You were in a hurry, a dither, a flurry,
so much you did not see,
that your bait was barely on the hook,
but thanks for feeding me, tra lee,
yes thanks for feeding me.
The fisherman went to the sea he did,
he did, he did, did he,
and because of a hurry, a dither, a flurry,
he caught no fish you see.
So supper was late, and supper was bait,
tra la, tra lo, tra lee.






Hope
Comes the morning, thrush will call,
from brambled hedge, or garden wall.
Sing he must, and sing he will,
though even to a silent hill.
And be there but echoes all along,
he will forget the day, but not his song.






How Are You Doing?
I've got me the pinkeye.
My sciatica hurts.
I've got some sort of rash,
and a touch of the squirts.
I've contracted a hangnail.
My fungus came back.
I'm allergic to soap,
and there's a wart in my crack.
I can't find my glasses.
There's a rock in my shoe.
I've got halitosis,
and a skin tag or two.
My wallet got stolen.
My wife threw me out.
I can't do the tango,
it riles up my gout.
But I've learned to adapt.
I've not given up hope.
Since my teeth all fell out,
I just floss with a rope.
I'm not one to complain,
and I'm not one to whine.
So to answer your question;
I'm doing just fine.






Hurry Hurry Little Child
Hurry hurry little child,
Summer's on it's way.
Through the tattered gown of April,
shows the brighter cloth of May.
Hurry hurry little child,
Autumn's on its way.
All the leaves are falling now,
there must be no delay.
Theres no more need to hurry child.
It seems Winters come to stay.
And if this is what you hurried for,
you should have stopped a while to play.






If You'd Be A Sailor
If you'd be a sailor,
if a sailor you'd be.
Don't sit on a mountain,
and wait for the sea.






In The Know
It must be nice to know just everything.
Everything that comes along.
The answer to each riddle,
the words to every song.
It must be nice to know just everything.
You must be in great demand.
There is no question you can't answer.
How insightful, oh how grand.
It must be nice to just know everything.
We should get on our knees and try,
to have you come and take command,
since you alone know how and why.
It must be nice to know just everything.
Everything that comes along.
It must be nice to know just everything.
Everything but when you're wrong.






Inchworm
The inchworm stops to look around,
as he inchworms now and then.
He don't know where he's going,
but he knows how long it's been.






Inclination
I've a strong inclination,
for some procrastination.
I think there's some on the shelf.
I'll go find it tomorrow,
if I can find time to borrow,
it's a lie I keep telling myself.






Innocence
There is a garden in the heart,
where we as children can play.
And there simply gather the flowers,
without knowing they're called a bouquet.






Instinctive
There is a genius of the ages,
a genius born of old.
A genius more than conscious thought.
A genius of the soul.






Issues And Tissues
Issues and tissues,
whiskey and wine.
Drink em and sink em,
you're gonna be fine.
Then you wake up,
with a pain in your head,
with the issues and tissues,
still waiting in line.






Just Ducky
When you get sad and lonely,
your heart dry and gone to seed.
Don't try to find a woman.
A duck is what you need.
A duck won't say you're lazy,
won't call you a disgrace.
Won't laugh when you get naked.
At least not to your face.
A duck don't like to argue,
won't mope around and cry,
pitch a total hissy fit,
then whack you in the eye.
A duck won't hog the covers.
Won't tell you that you snore.
Make you leave your shoes outside,
or lock the bedroom door.
If you need a bosom buddy,
a duck will be right by your side.
Just ignore the laughter,
when you take him for a ride.
All these things I've told you,
are true, not just a hunch.
And if he ever aggravates you,
you can serve him up for lunch.






Just Eighteen
Mab and I were sweethearts,
when we were just eighteen.
I the strutting rooster,
she the faerie queen.
We would go a wandering,
when we were just eighteen.
Searching for those ins and outs,
and all that in between.
We would slip behind the dunes,
when twilight came to call,
and there discuss the mystery,
not saying anything at all.
Later on within the midnight,
clothed in starlight's silver hue,
I would tell Mab that I loved her,
and she would say she loved me too.
All these times have gone away,
like morning mist upon the stream.
There but in a moment gone.
In a heartbeat it would seem.
Yet how sweetly come the memories,
of the things we've done and seen.
Somewhere Mab and I are holding hands,
and we are just eighteen.






Keyholes
Who is it now that can describe,
how the whole thing is designed,
when each man only takes a peek,
through the keyhole of his mind?






Kindness
Kindness is a flower.
More precious than the rose.
And it blooms in every season,
to make bright the garden where it grows






Les Misérables
They hide their eyes from the morning,
in hopes the light goes away.
They turn their face from the dawning,
the truth in its frightful display.
They sit within an unlocked cage,
in their huts by a haunted sea,
to shake old chains at passers by,
crying, Bondage sets you free! 






Lie
A lie is a nasty little bird,
that loves to sing its bile and scandal,
and daily visits the village pump,
to crap upon the handle.






Life
Life, O bright ephemeral day,
fleeting breath that slips away.
Self portrait of unique design,
critiqued and judged by One devine.






Looking Back
Looking back upon my life,
it comes as no surprise,
that at times the hands that hurt me most,
are the hands that dry my eyes.






Lunch
Little mouse wished she could fly like a hawk,
as she sneaked out on clover to munch.
Then lo and behold, her wish came true.
But that was right after lunch.






Mars
I once met a fellow from Mars,
who carried a jar full of stars.
When asked the meaning of this,
he said, When my lighter's remiss,
they're quite handy for lighting cigars.






May I Take Your Order?
Two large cheese burgers,
with double the cheese.
Tomato and onion,
mayo if you please.
Three orders of fries,
the extra large size,
two Caesar salads,
four fried apple pies.
Lets throw in some sundaes,
I think three will do.
With whipped cream and sprinkles,
a cherry or two.
What I can't finish here,
I'll take home in a poke.
And since I'm watching my weight,
I'll have a small diet coke.






Me
Me, me wonderful me.
To hell with the others,
it was all about me.
I used and abused,
pushed others back on the shelf,
while I stood in the limelight,
and applauded myself.
I danced only for me.
No stage would I share.
Until I looked on the crowd,
and no one was there.






Me Valentine'
I gayve me luv me faythful eart.
I gayve me luv a rose.
She used me poah eart for a futboll,
en shuved de flowah up me nose.






Mimosa
The mimosa shows her flowers.
Thank you kindly, very much.
But remember the mimosa,
has leaves that close to every touch.






Minute
How vain to measure an hour,
an eon, a minute.
Time doesn't pass.
Only that which is in it.






Misplaced
There was a time,
ago,
embraced,
when a woodland walk,
brought a state of grace.
Sun bright October,
the crisping morn,
the earth renewed,
the soul reborn.
Each day different,
each day new,
each with wondrous things to do.
Each a song that could be sung.
Sung forever,
forever young.
There was a time,
ago,
misplaced.






Moment
And what shall you do,
when I am no more?
No light in the window,
no smile at the door.
What shall you do?
Life will go on.
Forget then the sunset,
embrace the new dawn.
The world is not ending.
To weep would be sin.
Dwell not too long,
in the moment I've been.






Neglected
When I feel a tad neglected,
as the unappreciated will,
I remind myself that I am me,
and give myself a thrill.
Then should I get downhearted,
and no longer feel the thrill,
I tell me that I love me,
and that I always will.






Nettles
Even nettles have flowers.
Even nettles need love.
But the flowers on nettles,
should be touched with a glove.






Night Light
Inconstant form from shadow rises.
In the darkness fear surmises.
What light reveals, relieves,surprises.






No Time
I have no more time,
to stumble, or bumble,
fumble, fidget, or fall.
I will go over,
around, through, or under,
every time that I meet a wall.
I have no time to grumble,
whine, pine, or mumble,
or on past glories to sit.
Life is a river, a taker, a giver,
I have no time for missing one bit.






Non Compos Mentis
Non compos mentis they says of me!
Nay, nay, no, no says I.
Oh do come take a peek,
it will prove what I speak,
I have plenty of compost in mind.






Nonsense Song
I went alone to climb the mountain,
to sing my nonsense song.
I went alone to climb the mountain,
to sing it loud and long.
I went alone to climb the mountain,
to sing my nonsense song.
And there upon the mountain,
found myself among a throng.
I went alone to climb the mountain,
to sing my nonsense song.
And there upon the mountain,
with the others sang along.






Nostalgia
I sit and smile in reverie,
of things that used to be.
Of woodlands wild, seen as a child,
of friends from long ago.
My heart goes back to the meadows,
to the hills I used to know.
To sunrise on the river,
the evening campfires glow.
My heart goes back to younger days,
as the sun is casting low,
as time would seem a rushing stream,
with me trapped in the flow.






Nothing New
To me it seems there's nothing new,
it seems there's nothing new to me.
It seems everything that might be new,
it seems I find in used to be.
Still it seems there should be something new,
something new to me.
Perhaps it lies behind a veil,
through which I choose not to see.






Now And Then
It's only now and then I think of you,
as life goes on it's way.
When the sun wakes up the morning,
when the moon comes out to play.
Every time that I hear laughter,
or when the teardrops start.
Every time I take a breath,
or feel the beating of my heart.
It's only now and then I think of you,
as life goes on it's way.
It's only now and then I think of you,
every second of the day.






October Sky
Let us go upon the meadow.
Let us go there you and I.
As the sun begins to lift his head,
in a new October sky.
Let us play upon the meadow.
Let us play there you and I.
And make our castles from the clouds,
in a noon October sky.
Let us linger on the meadow.
Let us linger you and I.
Until the heavens are but mellow gold,
in a late October sky.
Let us dream upon the meadow.
Let us dream there you and I.
And share our dreams with all the stars,
in a night October sky.






Off The Coast Of Macaroon
Off the coast of Macaroon,
I set out to catch a whale.
Teacup for a barquentine,
napkin for a sail.
The harpoon was a salad fork,
the rudder was a spoon.
No finer craft ever braved a wave,
off the coast of Macaroon.
Yet off the coast of Macaroon,
there was no craft that could prevail,
against a dozen hurricanes,
some light drizzle and a gale.
I'm lucky to have made the shore.
I would not be alive to tell the tale,
but for a raft of jelly toast,
of which I made a good avail.
Off the coast of Macaroon,
I'm gonna go and catch a whale.
I think I need a bigger boat.
Next time I'll use a paila






On Finding Love
Go lightly through the garden,
to find the flower you would choose.
Go lightly through the garden,
for the buds so easy bruise.






On Principle I Suppose
Dirt, O dirt, O dirtious dirt,
mud and silt and sand.
It's found on your clothes,
tween your toes, up your nose,
and often is found on the hand.
But dirt, O dirt, without dirtious dirt,
just where in the world would we stand?






Opus
The butterfly his opus writes,
on breezes passing by.
Yet as he writes he does forget,
the how, the when, and why.
A butterfly I'd love to be,
but the fates will not comply.
For I still remember how, and when.
At times I've just forgotten
why.






Oubliette
Have I been gone?
I tend to forget.
I may have went back,
to the old oubliette,
for some self flagellation,
with whips of regret.
Have I been gone?
Sometimes I forget.
I may have went back,
to the old oubliette.
I never can tell from a gash or a weal.
They always look fresh.
I won't let them heal.






Our Fine Feathered Friends
Ho ho, ho ho, and we did go,
out to the momo tree.
And there we played within the shade,
for count of one, two, three.
Which way, which way? , I heard me say,
to my faithful friend the duck.
Should we peramble north or south,
or simply trust to luck? 
The look upon his ducky face,
did not reveal the choice to come.
He just looked me in the eye and said,
I can't believe that you're so dumb.
What we, what we? , he says to me,
then with a scornful sigh,
Peramble where the heck you want,
but me I'm gonna fly! 






Oz
I woke up this morning in Oz,
the Munchkins embroiled in a cause.
They cried, All the people are free,
Except those who do not agree.
In freedoms chains we will bind them with laws.
So I hitched up my load,
on the yellow brick road,
and it's back now to Kansas for me.






Peas
Never ever shove a pea, up your nasal cavity.
It makes you wheeze, it makes you sneeze,
and dance a strange fandango.
And although it's just a little pea,
your nose thinks it's a mango.
Some folks will simply stop and stare
Some will laugh, and some won't care,
and some will wonder why you chose,
to shove a legume up your nose.
So wheeze and sneeze, and hop about,
and if the dang thing won't come out,
you better hope it doesn't sprout.






Pebbles
Many push aside the boulders,
in lifes road as they go through,
to let themselves then be defeated,
by a pebble in their shoe.






Pecos Pete
Now Pecos Pete was a sad galoot,
who always had holes in the top of his boot.
He weren't too bright, the old owlhoot.
He was slow on the draw, but quick on the shoot.






Periphery
Along the sharp periphery,
between the now and used to be,
I walk a cluttered corridor,
from which I am never free.






Piddlin
I wandered about in the Windiewiddle,
with a duck, and a mouse, and a moose with a fiddle.
We paused for a while to piddle in a puddle,
as we mused confused, in the
middle of a muddle.
I think, said the mouse,
we've gone astray.
We're all quite lost is what I
say.
Oh my! , said the duck,
That's such bad luck,
but isn't it a lovely day! 
The moose, if he heard, never
ever said a word,
as he took up his fiddle to
play.
Then poor ol me, no path could see,
and said not yea or nay.
So if you wander about in the WIndiewiddle,
with a duck, and a mouse, and a moose with a fiddle,
don't piddle in a puddle, too
long in a muddle,
or you just might lose your way.






Piffleduns
Murlington Piffledun fell on his ass.
Which at times we're all apt to do.
He would not try to rise,
He just growled at the skies,
and uttered some oaths three or two.
He said,  I'll just sit here and pout!
I've been mistreated no doubt!
Misery, oh misery boo hoo! 
He just sat with a groan,
until he turned into stone.
Which at times some Piffleduns choose.
A stone in the grass, all alone on its ass,
by a road all must travel and use.






Pigwiggle
Roostus P. Pigwiggle lived in a bog.
He piggled and wiggled at night through the fog.
He creeped and he peeped at the house on the hill,
where lived Aggie, and Maggie, Old Granny,
and Bill.
He looked in the windows, he sniffed at the door,
this nasty wet thing from the
bog on the
moor.
He thumped and he bumped and he
fumbled about,
until Old Granny heard him, and
raised up a shout.
Oh what could that be on this cold night so damp?
I'll build up the fire, I'll turn up the lamp.
Pigwiggle came and he beat on the door.
He beat and he banged, till his beatbanger was sore.
Old Granny was frightened of what might be in store,
but was afraid some poor soul had got lost on the moor.
So she flung the door open, then said with a grin,
Why it's Mr. Pigwiggle, please won't you come in?
'Tis a raw bitter night, hang your cloak on a nail.
There's scones in the cupboard, I'll fetch you an ale.
Pigwiggle said, Thank you Granny, that's sweet,
but I was hoping for candy.
It's or treat! 






Pinderbiff
And Pinderbiff McAsterson,
might be a happy man today,
had he not passed his years,
all in arrears,
in search of April during May.






Point Of View
I went to see ol Stinky,
in his shack down by the sea,
and saw an open window,
as open as could be.
I turned and said to Stinky,
who just sat there with a grin,
If you don't close the window,
the bugs will all get in.
Stinky looked at me and said,
My friend, there is no doubt,
that's not where the bugs get in,
that's where the bugs get out.






Ponderous
That must be a ponderous poem.
Profound in it's profundity.
It must be steeped in meanings deep,
complex in it's complexity.
That must be a ponderous poem.
I hope it is you see.
For after fourteen readings,
it doesn't mean a thing to me.






Primrose
Sweet primrose pressed between the pages.
A book of verse from bygone ages.
A token kept, and treasured then.
But to what purpose, to what
end?
A lovers gift, tucked dear away,
a flower picked one idle day?
Who now can say a time, a place,
what yearning heart, a name, a
face;
a crumbling flower the only
trace?
Perhaps it's only heaven knows,
the lives that once entwined the rose.






Privilege
I'm hungry for some oysters.
I shall brook with no delay.
I told the oysters that I'm hungry,
and to serve me right away.
I do so wish they'd hurry.
I should be on my way.
My newest yacht needs fitting out,
I have a tee time late today.
I simply must go have a manicure,
and then there's bridge to play.
You'd think a wealthy man like
me,
with oysters would have sway.
The sun is getting awfully hot,
I do not care for sand.
I feel the need to be cooled off,
massaged then gently fanned.
This waiting unattended,
is becoming more than I can stand.
And I think the oysters quite ungrateful,
not to come at my command.






Push
A push is a pull.
Now isn't that grand?
So then a pull is a push.
It just depends where you stand.






Rainbows
If all I ate were rainbows,
I would never leave the sky.
But you can't just live on rainbows.
However hard you try.






Reading A Book While Listening To Your Wife
So galard, galard galunderous,
did doop with a dalious whoop,
when galick galack perfunderous,
shalo, shalo, shaloop!
Then wahoo ignate delitebus,
came pato, pato, patoop,
as enon, enon, ashay depay,
shalon shalon shaloot shalay!
I'm sorry dear, what did you say? 






Reflections From Bear Lake
I'd rather be upon the hillside,
when the night mist rolls away,
and watch the sky run into scarlet,
at the start of such a day,
I'd rather be beside the rushes,
where the lonely peeper pleads,
and the flashing red wing blackbird,
sings his soul into the reeds.

I'd rather be within the woodland,
on some wild and winding way,
to have a talk with solitude,
and see what he has to say.
I'd rather be where misty willow,
goes to stand down by the stream,
dip his toe into the water,
and dream his willow dream.
I'd rather be here in the meadow,
when the fireflies come to play,
and watch the sky run into scarlet,
at the end of such a day.






Requiem For A Day
Now let twilight sound the knell,
for a day I've lived and loved so well.
A day of warmth when I am cold,
a day of youth when I am old.
Each hour marked by it's own song,
with hopeful dreams that sang along.
Let this day's timely blossom
fall,
in the orchard there, beyond the
wall.
To be remembered in a dream,
where all good things are what
they seem.
Goodnight, goodnight, the vespers call.
God bless you one, God bless you all.






Revolution
On the steps of Chichen Itza,
we stopped for lunch, and I had pizza.
The Mayans gazed a greedy gaze,
for all they had to eat was maize.
I said, Hold on my friends,
it's rude to stare.
You know there's not enough to
share.
Don't be crass, and don't be
crude.
Be grateful for your humble food.
On the steps of Chichen Itza,
the Mayans came and took my pizza.
I sat upon the steps forlorn.
They wouldn't give me any corn.






Sand
The sea was before him,
the cliffs were behind,
so he sat down and thought,
till a thought came to mind.
'I'll build me a house,
there's plenty of sand.
I'll build it right here,
right here on the strand.'.
So he built him a house,
oh so lovely and grand,
and he settled right in,
settled in as he planned.
He felt safe and secure,
as he said with a grin,
'I'm glad it's all done,
cause the tide's coming in.'.






Seams
When I have grown older,
worn out at the seams,
I'll flop on the couch,
and cohabit with dreams.
I'll wear only my boxers,
strut around in the sun,
wink at young women,
and cause them to run.
I' take out my teeth,
at your formal affair,
break wind in public,
and scratch like a bear.
I'll boast of old glories,
and bore you to tears,
while I play with the hair,
that grows out of my ears.
They'll say I'm disgusting,
but I won't give a crap.
Now find something to do,
cause you're ruining my nap!






Seasons
The young cling to their causes,
the old cling to their reasons.
The young think in minutes,
the old think in seasons.






Send For Me No Flowers
Send for me no flowers.
No flowers send for me.
Plant a lovely primrose.
Perhaps in fall a willow tree.
There is no need for sorrow.
No flowers send for me.
Save the flowers for the butterfly.
Save the flowers for the bee.
And should you come to visit;
do you come in early spring.
And should you come to visit;
a present kindly bring.
Bring the seeds of flowers.
Flowers wild and flowers free.
Sow them on the meadow;
a gentle coverlet for me.






September
Then came my friend September,
who took me by the hand,
and we sang a sweet September song,
as we strolled across the land.
Our paths were bright, complete delight,
from morn till end of day.
Our souls were filled, our hearts were thrilled,
to see Autumn on display.
At last September said, with nodding head,
I've grown too sleepy now to play,
but I'll be waiting here, for you next year,
when again you come this way.






Shadows
I know that shadows shadow me.
Sometimes in front, sometimes behind.
At noon I'm right on top of one,
but he doesn't seem to mind.
Then on rainy days, or moonless
nights,
or in a darkened room.
I know they're simply waiting
there,
hiding in the gloom.
I know this shouldn't bother me.
I know I shouldn't care.
But then I close my eyes to
sleep,
and I see shadows everywhere.






Shadows Come And Shadows Go
Shadows come, and shadows go,
to ott times give us quite a fright.
But wherever there are shadows,
there muat also be a light.






Shoal River Morning
New wind weaves the willow wood,
the sleeping vines entwined,
stirring deep damp forest thoughts,
in natures timeless mind.
New rubies are the grass bourn dews,
the river dons her morning hues,
as she, without a backward glance,
runs on in winding happenstance.
The silvered mist, still caresses, clings,
to sleepy moss grown shadowed things,
and looks askance, at the advance,
of sparkling sunlight's water dance.
The night, reluctant turns away,
to hide her face from newborn day.
To bide her time with practiced art,
until time once more to play her part.
God smiles. Shoal river morning.






Shod
One foot is shod,
the other is bare.
She's walking in circles,
yet seems unaware.
She looks for a shoe,
that no longer is there.
She's wasting her time,
but does not seem to care.
Fruitless and pointless,
to search in despair.
When she can look in her heart,
and pick out a new pair.






Should A Morning
Should a morning come I do not know,
and you awake to see the day,
would you have had a fleeting dream,
of something lost and gone away?
Then later on, when all alone,
would your memory stray,
to walk the fields of days gone by,
where you and I still play?
And I hope there would be comfort,
and in your heart some joy to find,
to recall I loved you dearly,
with heart, and soul, and mind.






Sing
Some voices may not shake the earth,
move the mountains, bridge the span.
But the songs are no less wonderful,
of those who simply sing because
they can.






Skip
I skipped along, free as a lark,
there on the lane, there in the park.
Me heart was light, with joy o'er filled,
to hear the little birdies trill,
then whiff and sniff a daffydill.
I skipped along with natures grace,
tripped and fell flat on me face.






Snare
Spider spins her silver snare,
bejeweled with the dew.
Sparkling in the morning sun,
a kaleidoscope of hue.






So It Goes
God gave flowers to the nettle;
as well as to the rose.
So it would seem he loves them both;
so it is, and so it goes.






Sol
He climbs above the eastern wall,
as in a dream he must recall.
To the rustlings of desire,
of those who burn beneath the fire.
The earth will spin, the day
repeat,
the circle then again complete.
Then as of old the dream reset,
so what has been will happen yet.






Sparrows And Wrens
'Tis said Hansel and Gretel went into the wood,
sparrows and wrens, sparrows and wrens,
leaving their bread crumbs as everyone should,
sparrows and wrens, sparrows and wrens.
Be careful, be cautious,
for at times now and then,
to know where you're going,
you must know where you've been.






Start Of The Art
There was a Cro Magnon named Dave,
quite refined, if not overly brave.
On the hunt he would pass,
sit at home on his ass,
and draw on the walls of the cave.






Stinking Shoes
Oh, I did whine and sing the blues,
cause I was broke, and needed shoes.
Yet as I grumbled down the street,
I saw a happy man who had no feet.
Why wasn't he sad, I pondered, mused.
Why didn't he whine and sing the blues?
Then the answer truth ensues.
It's cause he didn't need no stinking shoes!






Stones
Friday comes as Friday will,
like a slow stone rolled,
to the top of the hill.
The weekend comes,
like a feather in the wind,
which you run and chase,
with a childlike grin.
It seems but a moment,
but you realize then,
the stone rolled back,
and it's Monday again.






Summer
I see her barefoot standing there,
in one of her Summer soft dresses.
The woman I love, in Summer soft tresses.
I kiss her mouth, her breast, her eyes,
she Summer sings to me with sighs.
She Summer brings me to the floor,
she loves me now, I love her more.
In Summer's love I'm now embraced,
Summer sweet, sweet Summer taste.
Summer has sweet Summer charms,
as Summer sleeps here in my arms.






Sweeter
'Twere sweeter done from love than conscience.
At least from where I sit.
'Twere sweeter done from love than conscience,
but I shall take what I can get.






Take Another Tack
Sometimes I sail a silly ship,
as both captain and the crew.
Sometimes we sail in silly circles,
without a clue what else to do.
We always need refitting.
Storms have tattered every sail.
The hold is taking water,
and I'm constant at the bail.
I think I'll plan a mutiny.
Things can't go on as before.
I shall maroon this silly captain,
and leave him on some silly shore.






Tea Time
Tea, tea, wonderful tea,
a cup for you, a cup for me.
These tea inclinations,
bring on tea assignations,
I'm ready for tea totally.
Just a dollop of cream,
makes it smooth as a dream.
And some sugar?
Just one lump or two?
Oh I'll have nothing that's sweet,
it goes right to my seat,
but a wee drop of brandy will do.
We can chatter for hours,
births and deaths, baby showers.
About things when we don't have a clue.
About the neighbor's new beau,
he's a doctor you know.
By his car it just has to be true.
We'll show off our new frills,
talk of our ailments and ills,
and whether we're happy or blue.
Drinking tea, tea, wonderful tea.
A cup for you, a cup for me.
Come whenever you're able,
there's a place at the table.
The pots always on, and it's free.






Tempus Fugit
He and I were best of friends,
when we were young and small.
Years ago he'd left his number,
so I gave him a call.
He talked about his marriages,
how his roof leaks when it rains,
how dandelions have claimed the yard,
and how easy carpet stains.
He talked about his children,
Bill and Bob and Sue.
How they never come to see him,
I helped him cry. oh my, boo hoo.
He talked about his aches and pains,
hemorrhoids and rashes too.
How he had almost died last year,
from hangnail and the flu.
I told him I was sorry,
I wish there was something I could do,
but I think my wife is calling me,
so I'll get back to you.
He and I were best of friends,
when our world was bright and new.
But now he's just a memory,
with a hemorrhoid ortwo.






The Appalachian
Child of the mountains,
child of the hills,
child of the mist,
the rocks and the rills.
Take me back home,
in the highlands to be,
to bide in the wildwood,
that knows not the sea.






The Box
In a box I placed my brain,
through seasons wax and seasons wane,
away from harm 'twas safely lain.
No work to do, no wheel to spin,
no die to cast, no lose or win. There I neatly stored some
things,
some plans and schemes,
some hopes and dreams.
I muse about it now and then,
with a shake of the head,
and a wistful grin.
For things night be,
what might have been,
if I could find that box again.






The Brook
She took the flower,
the flower she took,
that came down with the water,
that came down with the brook.
She kissed every petal,
every petal so sweet,
from an invisible lover,
she might never meet.
She looked up at the heavens,
the vast empty sky,
looked down at the flower,
and started to cry.
She dropped the flower.
Dropped it back in the brook.
Along with some tears,
from her heart that she took.
She then dried her eyes,
dried her eyes on a dream,
turned her back to the flower,
and started upstream.
For there will be more flowers,
more flowers will be,
far away from her tears,
that now flow to the sea.






The Cage
Some birds that have been caged from birth,
that have never known the sky,
will try to make you love the cage,
as they wonder why you wish to fly.






The Embrace
I open my arms to the morning,
with love to embrace the new day.
I scratch like a bear as I'm yawning,
and hope that the rash goes away.






The Emperor That Never Was
It must be hard to be the emperor,
when there's no one there to reign.
Ignored, abhorred and treated with disdain.
It must be hard to be the emperor,
when none are left to play your game.
To sit and pout within the throne room,
wondering who you now can blame.






The Face
I went into the meadow,
to seek the face of God.
And in the quiet of the morning,
saw the face I've always known.
I went upon the city streets,
to seek the face of God.
And there among the teeming throng,
saw the face I've always known.
I went into my heart of hearts,
to seek the face of God.
And saw the face I once denied,
yet the face I've always known.






The Fae And The Huntsman
The Fae came down the mountain,
down,
her heart soft summer rain,
for she had fallen Fae in love,
with a huntsman on the plain.
The Fae came down the mountain,
down,
her song soft as a sigh,
and sang him deep, to faerie sleep,
with a Fae soft lullaby.
The huntsman dreamed he had a dream,
of endless Summer skies,
of silver wings, and faerie rings,
of a queen with opal eyes.
Then the huntsman dreamed he had a dream,
of endless Winter skies,
of gray and old, alone and cold,
of a queen with empty eyes.
The Fae came down the mountain,
down,
her heart soft summer rain,
for she had fallen Fae in love,
with a shepherd on the plain.






The Fence
Her name was Jenny Pickles,
and in the days of innocence,
she'd share her jelly sammiches,
and kiss me through the fence.
A princess and her faithful thane,
we'd hold court upon the lawn.
But with time, and tide, and circumstance,
the kingdom's lost and gone.
Now and then I think of her,
and when life gets too intense,
my heart goes back to younger days,
and jelly kisses through the fence.






The Fold
They were told what to think,
and thought what was told,
that the ice was quite hot,
and the fire was quite cold.
Don't believe what you see,
it's a lie you've been sold.
You'll be safe in the flock,
you'll be safe in the fold.






The Fox And The Moon..A Children's Verse
The moon that came to the meadow,
was as moon as a moon can be.
And the moon was old, and the moon was cold,
cold and old as a moon can be.
The fox that came to the meadow,
was as fox as a fox can be.
And the fox was old, and the fox was cold,
cold and old as a fox can be.
The moon looked down at the meadow.
If a fox I could only be.
It could do no harm, just once to be warm.
To scamper wild and free.
The fox looked up at the heavens.
If the moon I could only be.
Just to glide away till the break of day,
no hounds a chasing me.
They lingered there in the meadow,
until the sun ran both from sight.
But the moon was a fox, and
a fox was the moon,
on an old cold meadow night.






The Fox Hunt
What beating heart neath heavens deep,
could neither mourn nor open weep?
The baying hound, the braying horn,
now into a life a terror is born.
The thunder of horses, O pitiless sound,
God hears his last cry, as ol Reynard goes down.
Thoughtless and callous the ways of a man.
How shall he be judged, with judgement at hand?
Foxes and huntsmen, blood and distain.
A soul is a soul, to differ only in name.






The Garden
My heart has made a garden,
where the thorn falls away from the rose.
Where every flower has your face,
the only flower that grows.
And I tend it oh so carefully,
in rows both pure and true,
and there each breath i take is love,
and there each breath is you.






The Gateway
The gateway is barred.,
he said with a grin,
But am I without,
or am I within? 






The Idealist
And Allemon Invincible did sail a troubled sea,
in search of things that never were,
and things that cannot be.
Of men renowned he gathered,
a crew immune to siren song.
All steadfast stern and stalwart.
All valiant proud and strong.
The ship she bore a golden standard,
the light of truth shown round the bow,
and did illume the waves of darkness,
that smote the silvered prow.
Aloof, they rode, the peak, the crest,
of each and every wave.
no thought of veering, intent on steering,
in the selfsame wake they made.
The hold was filled with good intentions,
that warped the boards with useless schemes,
until the waters of delusion,
poured through all the opened seams.
The quest became a weary wind,
and then an endless gale,
that set the heaving decks awash,
and shredded every sail.
Endless on, and evermore,
night was day, and day was night.
They ignored the rocks and breakers,
their course was pure and true and right.
So Allemon Invincible, did sail a troubled sea,
and dashed his dreams upon the rocks,
where rocks could never be.






The Jester
The king called for the jester,
and the jester was no fool.
He sensed there might be trouble,
for the summons seemed quite cool.
He was a little frightened,
his knees a little weak,
and he hung his head in silence,
as the king began to speak.
Long have you been with me.
We have walked a happy mile.
But you no longer make me laugh,
you no longer make me smile.
The jester said unto the king,
Yes, we have walked a happy mile.
I know that you no longer laugh.
I know you do not smile.
Long have I been with you,
always bowed to your commands,
but in truth the choice to either laugh or cry,
has always been in your own hands.






The Kudu
The kudu set out for the river,
dressed up all kudu style,
and as she did pass,
the lion from the grass,
purred ' Stop and stay for a while.'
'Oh that won't do.', Said the wise kudu,
'Although I do admire your smile.
I know about you, from my friend the gnu,
whose bones now lie in a pile.
And I'd hate to be late,
to a previous date,
for a drink with the crocodile.'






The Latch
Just inside the garden wall,
a genius waits, I hear him call.
He sits there with a taunting grin.
He knows I'd like to enter in.
He knows the problem, knows the catch,
I've found the gate, but not the latch.






The Maiden And The Dragon
He did alight, from a lofty height,
near the maiden on the strand.
Surprised to see, her standing free,
unfettered foot or hand.
Oh tell me tender maiden,
for i would truly love to know,
why you have come so bravely,
to where others fear to go.
Oh pretty, pretty dragon.
long have I loved you from afar.
By day you seem the burning sun,
by night a shooting star.
I have cone to pledge my love to you, ,
said the maiden with a sigh,
and I hope to go back with you,
to your lair up in the sky. 
Oh silly,silly maiden,
you have made a silly plan.
You should never love a dragon,
you should love a silly man.
Yet I shall take you with me.
But from within, not from without.
And I admire a frisky supper,
so feel free to hop about.






The Maze
Then in the night, the clinging night,
the moon she comes, the moon she calls,
and then like silvered teardrops falls,
upon the ruin, the broken walls,
the empty path, the empty halls,
where our love used to live.
Then wander I between the days,
within the mist, the silent haze.
Forever trapped within the maze,
where our love used to live.






The Mending
Let shadows of the passing night,
take flight before the sun,
as bright hands of the morning,
work to mend the things undone.






The Meocentric Man
I am the Meocentric Man.
I know the earth is flat.
I don't give a damn what others think.
It's flat, and that is that.
I am the Meocentric Man.
I won't back up or hedge.
And if with me, you won't agree,
I might go over the edge.






The Mob
Come join in the group,
the mob and the crowd.
There's no need to think.
There's no thinking allowed.
At last you'll belong,
chant along and be proud.
How sweet to be safe,
in a dark mindless shroud.
Turn your back to the truth,
let the truth go to sleep.
Don't stray from the flock,
be a good little sheep.
Nameless and blameless,
in whatever you do,
for you are the mob,
and the mob now is you.






The Old Man From Navarre
There was an old man from Navarre,
who loved to smoke a cigar.
One night when plastered on beer,
snuffed one out in his rear,
And was left with a permanent scar.






The Pot
Sometimes you say a lot in a little.
Sometimes you say a little in a lot.
Sometimes it's best to say nothing at all,
and leave the lid on top of the pot.






The Seer
The seer wasn't very good.
Quite poor as seers went.
For he was unpredictable,
and rumored importent.






The Ship
If I must steer this ship alone,
the sea uncharted, ports unknown,
with no lighthouse on the headland,
to mark a dark unfriendly shore,
no line that's cast to find the shoal,
no guiding star that goes before.
Then I shall fly before the wind,
my back turned toward the gale,
and sing my song into the storm,
whilst setting every sail.
And should you come along beside,
let us exchange a cheerful hail,
with no need to ask,
What ship is that? ,
just take my hand across the rail.






The Ticket
Bought me a ticket, but missed the train.
Clickety click, clickety clack.
For me that was lucky cause it jumped the track.
Clickety click, Clickety clack.
You never know what life has got planned.
It deals out the cards, and you play the hand.
Clickety click, clickety........






The Water Bearer
When the tiger comes to bite,
tomorrow is today,
and forgotten is the earthen pot,
you dropped along the way.






The Whimsicle Pickle
The Whimsicle pickle,
was out for a stroll,
when he spied a fresh egg,
who was out for a roll.
Oh you fresh little eggie,
from here I can tell,
you've taken a notion,
to come out of your shell.
Then he said with a flourish,
old fashioned and droll,
Let's go make a salad,
I'll find us a bowl! 






Those I's
There are lots and lots of I's.
Can I, did I, do I.
Then around the bend,
there's more my friend.
Will I, would I, could I.
There are lots and lots of I's.
You'll remember if you try.
But the most important I of all,
most of the time is should I.






Thursday
Thursday is gone, Thursday is spent,
to come never no more, I sadly relent.
Thursday is gone, and I confess and resent,
that I'm still confused,
as to where Wednesday went.






Tick Tock
Tick tock, tick tock.
Did I forget, tick tock,
to lock the lock?
Tick tock, tick tock.
Cause I forgot, tick tock,
to wind the clock.
Tick tock, tick tock.






Time
Time, a mindless bird in flight,
knows not the passing day,
and never sees the grasping hands,
that try to stop it on it's way.






Tiny Light
A smile it is a tiny light.
A gentle word, a kindly deed.
But often in the darkness,
a tiny light is all we need.






To Faerie Land
Leave back, leave back,
the meadow land,
where flowers come to grow.
To look upon a darker place,
a dappled sun will show.
Go down, go down, the leafy deeps;
to the faerie ring;
in the mist;
below.
Then wind along the winding way,
where lonely fireflies glow.
Seek out the path the old ones walked,
so long, so long ago;
until time turns back upon itself,
and the world begins to slow.
It's there that you will find them;
and in that stillness know,
that you have come to find a place;
you were not supposed to go.






Tolkienesque
Not
Not
Not
Not

every
every
every
every

sleeper can waken.
heart feels the cold.
soul can be shaken.
harp is of gold.







Tomorrow
Should tomorrow come,
come yea or nay,
I do not know, I cannot say.
That promise is not given,
the sun is up, go out and play.
Life is but a heartbeat.
Live each moment, now, today.






Toot
There are things of which I'm doubtful,
some things I haven't figured out.
But there is one thing I'm sure of,
and I'm sure without a doubt.
I'm sure that Otto's quite the toot,
when Otto's inside out.






True Love
True love is never weary.
True love is never blind.
True love dwells within the soul,
not in a state of mind.






Turn
I used to turn the young girls heads,
but that was yesterday.
Now every time I turn their heads,
it's around the other way.






Understanding
At times a wounded creature,
in fear and pain will rise and strike.
And if the wound go deep enough,
strike friend and foe alike.






Unnoticed
The tree that blooms unnoticed,
bears sweet blossom still,
and has it's time of beauty,
even on the silent hill.
And the lone flower on the meadow,
neither grieves nor mourns its plight,
but opes its petals to the
morning,
and revels in the light.






Upside Down
To me the world seemed upside down,
What a silly world! , I said.
Until I found, after looking around,
I was standing on my head.






Valentine's Day
Now every year at Valentine's,
my mind goes blank and flat.
It seems everything I try to do,
is trite and quite old hat.
I cannot buy her flowers,
she says flowers make her cry.
She says it makes her very sad,
to watch the flowers die.
I cannot wine and dine her.
Wine makes her want to have a spat.
I cannot buy her candy.
She says candy makes her fat.
So I think I'll just go fishing,
and see what she makes of that.






Walls
There comes a time;
when the walls fall down.
We see age in the eyes of our friends.
We smile.
Accepting.
Remembering.
And there; amid the ruins of pretense,
let us come to love the evening;
no less than the morn.






We Two
Her mouth, her kiss, sweet summer bliss,
soft and warm to me.
Her breath a rare ethereal air.
The sigh of a willow tree.
Her eyes were bright with sparkling light,
sapphires of the moon.
And the song they sang, they sang to me,
an ancient, urgent tune.
So there upon the scented earth,
beneath a summer dome of blue,
we became the universe,
and the universe we two.






What Good A Mansion
What good a mansion, with no way in,
to those outside, when the rains begin?
What good a mansion, without any doors,
as the lightning strikes, and the thunder roars?
What good a mansion, be it made of gold,
to those outside, afraid and cold?
And what good a mansion, of most precious stone,
to be inside, unloved, alone?






Where The Willawikki Flows
Where the Willawikki flows,
the lolo swim, and the gumgum grows,
along the banks in scented rows,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the WIlliwikki flows.
The people dress in old place
mats,
they all wear rubber boots for
hats,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the WIlliwikki flows.
The houses look like brass
spitoons,
the streets are paved with
macaroons,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the Willawikki flows.
They don't need money if you
please,
for that's where money grows on
trees,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the WIllawikki flows.
Work is a word that no one knows,
all they know is sweet repose,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the Willawikki flows.
They dance all night by the the
lolo moon,
then sleep till lunch at half
past noon,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the Willawikki flows.
They live their lives without a care,
there's peace and love enough to share,
where the Willawikki flows,
where the Willawikki flows.
I'd love to live where the
gumgum grows,





just sit on the porch and count
my toes,
where the WIllawikki flows,
where the WIllawikki flows.
There's just one problem I can
see,
me oh my, and my oh me.
None here have seen it, no one
knows,
just where the WIllawikki flows,
where the WIllawikki flows.






Whispers
I had thought to rise above the strife,
upon the dreams of younger days,
or hide on wasted paths of time,
in some silent, selfish maze.
Yet in seeing all that passes
now,
I cannot call myself a man,
to simply turn my face away,
and not help but as I can.
I see the trouble there before
me,
the misery and travail,
where evil is a living thing,
with no deed beyond the pale.
So I must stay and speak the truth,
though but a whisper in the
gale.






Willwon't
Some say they won't but they will,
some say they will but they won't.
It's quite confusing,  he said,
it befuddles me head,
and all I know about know,
is I don't.






Wind
The wind touches her hair.
Becoming visible with it's caress.
Fortunate wind.
Jealousy.






Window
To me a woman's mind is like,
a room that has no door.
I did climb through a window once,
but I won't do THAT no more.






Yoga

The mother of Caesar,
and his paw the old geezer,
said. Son, take heed and take care.
It's impolite to do yoga,
while dressed in a toga,
unless you've got undies to wear.






Zoology

Just to go among the entitled,
at times a thing which I must do,
I know why apes and monkeys,
throw poo when in the zoo.









  A COPPER DOWN A CRACK


  Jingle, jingle, Jack,
  A copper down a crack.
  Twenty men and all their wives,
  With sticks and picks and pocket knives,
  Digging for their very lives
  To get the copper back.




  I'M MUCH TOO BIG FOR A FAIRY


  I'm much too big for a fairy,
  And much too small for a man,
  But this is true:
  Whatever I do,
  I do it the best I can.




  DID YOU EVER PLAY TAG WITH A TIGER?


  Did you ever play tag with a tiger,
  Or ever play boo with a bear;
  Did you ever put rats in the rain-barrel
  To give poor old Granny a scare?

  It's fun to play tag with a tiger,
  It's fun for the bear to say "boo,"
  But if rats are found in the rain-barrel
  Old Granny will put you in too.





  THE BLUE SONG


  Hot mush and molasses all in a blue bowl--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.
  'T will make you grow tall as a telephone pole--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.

  Fresh fish and potatoes all on a blue plate--
  Eat it up smart now, my sonny.
  'T will make you as jolly and fat as Aunt Kate--
  Eat it up quick now, my sonny.

  Sweet milk from a nanny-goat in a blue cup--
  Drink it, it's good for you, sonny,
  'T will fill you, expand you, and help you grow up,
  And make a real man of you, sonny.




  HIPPITY HOP TO BED


  O it's hippity hop to bed!
  I'd rather sit up instead.
  But when father says "must,"
  There's nothing but just
  Go hippity hop to bed.






  AWAY TO THE RIVER


  Away to the river, away to the wood,
  While the grasses are green and the berries are good!
  Where the locusts are scraping their fiddles and bows,
  And the bees keep a-coming wherever one goes.

  Oh, it's off to the river and off to the hills,
  To the land of the bloodroot and wild daffodils,
  With a buttercup blossom to color my chin,
  And a basket of burs to put sandberries in.





  OUR LITTLE PAT


  Our little Pat
  Was chasing the cat
  And kicking the kittens about.
  When mother said "Quit!"
  He ran off to sit
  On the top of the woodpile and pout;
  But a sly little grin
  Soon slid down his chin
  And let all the sulkiness out.




  THE ANIMAL SHOW


  Father and mother and Bobbie will go
  To see all the sights at the animal show.
  Where lions and bears
  Sit on dining room chairs,
  Where a camel is able
  To stand on a table,
  Where monkeys and seals
  All travel on wheels,
  And a Zulu baboon
  Rides a baby balloon.
  The sooner you're ready, the sooner we'll go.
  Aboard, all aboard, for the Animal Show!





  TOMMY TRIMBLE


  Billy be nimble,
  Hurry and see
  Old Tommy Trimble
  Climbing a tree.
  He claws with his fingers
  And digs with his toes.
  The longer he lingers
  The slower he goes.





  DICKIE, DICKIE DEXTER


  Dickie, Dickie Dexter
  Had a wife and vexed her.
  She put him in a rabbit cage
  And fed him peppermint and sage--
  Dickie, Dickie Dexter.




  ON THE ROAD TO TATTLETOWN


  On the road to Tattletown
  What is this I see?
  A pig upon a pedestal,
  A cabbage up a tree,
  A rabbit cutting capers
  With a twenty dollar bill--
  Now if I don't get to Tattletown
  Then no one ever will.




  POLLY AND PETER


  Polly had some china cows
  And Peter had a gun.
  She turned the bossies out to browse,
  And Peterkin, for fun,
  Just peppered them with butter beans
  And blew them all to smithereens.

         *       *       *

  Now what will pretty Polly do
  For milk and cream and butter too?




  I WENT TO TOWN ON MONDAY


  I went to town on Monday
  To buy myself a coat,
  But on the way I met a man
  Who traveled with a caravan,
  And bought a billy-goat.

  I went to town on Tuesday
  And bought a fancy vest.
  I kept the pretty bucklestraps,
  Buttonholes and pocketflaps,
  And threw away the rest.


  I went to town on Thursday
  To buy a loaf of bread,
  But when I got there, goodness sakes!
  The town was full of rattlesnakes--
  The bakers all were dead.


  I went to town on Saturday
  To get myself a wife,
  But when I saw the lady fair
  I gnashed my teeth and pulled my hair
  And scampered for my life.





  WHERE ARE YOU GOING?


  Where are you going, sister Kate?
  I'm going to swing on the garden gate,
  And watch the fairy gypsies dance
  Their tim-tam-tum on the cabbage-plants--
  The great big one with the purple nose,
  And the tiny tad with the pinky toes.

  Where are you going, brother Ben?
  I'm going to build a tiger-pen.
  I'll get iron and steel and 'lectric wire
  And build it a hundred feet, or higher,
  And put ten tigers in it too,
  And a big wildcat, and--mebbe--you.


  Where are you going, mother mine?
  I'm going to sit by the old grapevine,
  And watch the gliding swallow bring
  Clay for her nest from the meadow spring--
  Clay and straw and a bit of thread
  To weave it into a baby's bed.


  Where are you going, grandma dear?
  I'm going, love, where the skies are clear,
  And the light winds lift the poppy flowers
  And gather clouds for the summer showers,
  Where the old folks and the children play
  On the warm hillside through the livelong day.




  CHRISTOPHER CRUMP


  Christopher Crump,
  All in a lump,
  Sits like a toad on the top of a stump.
  He stretches and sighs,
  And blinks with his eyes,
  Bats at the beetles and fights off the flies.





  PINKY, PINKY, PANG


  A tortoise sat on a slippery limb
  And played his pinky pang
  For a dog-fish friend that called on him,
  And this is what he sang:
  "Oh, the skies are blue,
  And I wait for you
  To come where the willows hang,
  And dance all night
  By the white moonlight
  To my pinky, pinky, pang!"




  TICK, TOCK


  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Forty 'leven by the clock.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Put your ear to Grandpa's ticker,
  Like a pancake, only thicker.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Catch a squirrel in half a minute,
  Grab a sack and stick him in it.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Mister Bunny feeds on honey,
  Tea, and taters--ain't it funny?
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  When he goes to bed at night,
  Shoves his slippers out of sight;
  That is why Old Fox, the sinner,
  Had to go without his dinner.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  So says Grandpa's clock.







  UNDER THE WILLOW


  Put down your pillow under the willow,
  Hang up your hat in the sun,
  And lie down to snooze as long as you choose,
  For the plowing and sowing are done.

  Pick up your pillow from under the willow,
  And clamber out into the sun.
  Get a fork and a rake for goodness' sake,
  For the harvest time has begun.




  HIGH ON THE MANTEL


  High on the mantel rose a moan--
  It came from an idol carved in bone--
  "Oh, it's so lonesome here alone,
  With no one near to love me!"

  A cautious smile came over the face
  Of a pensive maid on a Grecian vase
  "Are you sure," she said, with charming grace,
  "There's no one near to love you?"






  BOOTS, BOOTS, BOOTS


  Buster's got a popper gun,
  A reg'lar one that shoots,
  And Teddy's got an engine
  With a whistler that toots.
  But I've got something finer yet--
  A pair of rubber boots.
  Oh, it's boots, boots, boots,
  A pair of rubber boots!
  I could walk from here to China
  In a pair of rubber boots.





  BUTTERFLY


  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Sit on my chin,
  Your wings are like tinsel,
  So yellow and thin.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Give me a kiss;
  If you give me a dozen
  There's nothing amiss.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Off to the flowers,--
  Wee, soulless sprite
  Of the long summer hours.




  BEELA BY THE SEA


  Catch a floater, catch an eel,
  Catch a lazy whale,
  Catch an oyster by the heel
  And put him in a pail.

  There's lots of work for Uncle Ike,
  Fatty Ford and me
  All day long and half the night
  At Beela by the sea.





  A MATTER OF TASTE


  "Thank you, dear," said the big black ant,
  "I'd like to go home with you now, but I can't.
  I have to hurry and milk my cows--
  The aphid herds on the aster boughs."
  And the ladybug said: "No doubt it's fine,
  This milk you get from your curious kine,
  But you know quite well it's my belief
  Your cows are best when turned to beef."




  TOMMY, MY SON


  "Tommy, my son," said the old tabby cat,
  "Go catch us some mice, and be sure that they're fat.
  There's one family lives in the carpenter's barn;
  They've made them a nest of the old lady's yarn.
  But the carpenter has a young cat of his own
  That is healthy and proud and almost full grown,
  And consider it, son, an eternal disgrace
  To come home at night with a scratch on your face."





  OH, SAID THE WORM


  "Oh," said the worm,
  "I'm awfully tired of sitting in the trees;
  I want to be a butterfly
  And chase the bumblebees."





  BUZZY BROWN


  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As crazy as a loon,
  He wore a purple overcoat
  And sang a Sunday tune.

  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As proud as he could be,
  He found three doughnuts and a bun
  A-growing on a tree.




  THE WIND


  The wind came a-whooping, down Cranberry Hill
  And stole an umbrella from, Mother Medill.

  It picked up a paper on Patterson's place
  And carried it clean to the Rockaby Race.

  And what was more shocking and awful than that,
  It blew the new feather off grandmother's hat.





  THE HOBO BAND


  The roads are good and the weather's grand,
  So I'm off to play in the Hobo Band;
  With a gaspipe flute and a cowhide drum
  I'm going to make the music come.
  With a toot, toot, toot, and a dum, dum, dum,
  Just hear me make the music come!





  A BEETLE ON A BROOMSTRAW


  A robin and a wren, as they walked along one night,
  Saw a big brown beetle on a broomstraw.
  Said the robin to the wren: "What a pretty, pretty sight--
  That big brown beetle on a broomstraw!"
  So they got their plates and knives,
  Their children and their wives,
  And gobbled up the beetle on the broomstraw.




  MULE THOUGHTS


  A silly little mule
  Sat on a milking stool
  And tried to write a letter to his father.
  But he couldn't find the ink,
  So he said: "I rather think
  This writing letters home is too much bother."






  A CANDLE, A CANDLE


  A candle, a candle
  To light me to bed;
  A pillow, a pillow
  To tuck up my head.
  The moon is as sleepy as sleepy can be,
  The stars are all pointing their fingers at me,
  And Missus Hop-Robin, way up in her nest,
  Is rocking her tired little babies to rest.
  So give me a blanket
  To tuck up my toes,
  And a little soft pillow
  To snuggle my nose.





  BAXTER


  Baxter had a billy-goat
  Wall-eyed and double jointed.
  He took him to the barber shop
  And had his head anointed.




  LODDY, GIN, AND ELLA ZANDER


  Loddy, Gin, and Ella Zander
  Rode to market on a gander;
  Bought a crane for half a dollar;
  Loddy led him by the collar.

  Mister Crane said: "Hi there, master,
  Can't you make your legs work faster?
  We can't poke along this way."
  Then he slowly flew away.
  Loddy held him fast, you bet,
  And he hasn't come home yet.




  AS I WAS GOING DOWN THE HILL


  As I was going down the hill
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw the little Knapperines
  All in their winter wraps--
  Purple mitts and mufflers
  And knitted jersey caps.

  As I was coming back again
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw that awful lady
  Give about a dozen slaps
  To every little Knapperine--
  I thought it was, perhaps,
  Because they gathered stickers
  In their knitted jersey caps.






  A LITTLE BOY RAN TO THE END OF THE SKY


  A little boy ran to the end of the sky
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.
  He cried: "Three cheers for the Fourth of July!"
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.

  He saw three little donkeys at play,
  He tickled their noses to make them bray,
  And he didn't come back until Christmas Day--
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.




  DISCRETION


  A man with a nickel,
  A sword, and a sickle,
  A pipe, and a paper of pins
  Set out for the Niger
  To capture a tiger--
  And that's how my story begins.

  When he saw the wide ocean,
  He soon took a notion
  'T would be nicer to stay with his friends.
  So he traded his hat
  For a tortoise-shell cat--
  And that's how the chronicle ends.






  A BEETLE ONCE SAT ON A BARBERRY TWIG


  A beetle once sat on a barberry twig,
  And turned at the crank of a thingum-a-jig.
  Needles for hornets, nippers for ants,
  For the bumblebee baby a new pair of pants,
  For the grizzled old gopher a hat and a wig,
  The beetle ground out of his thingum-a-jig.





  THE THIEVES


  Tibbitts and Bibbitts and Solomon Sly
  Ran off one day with a cucumber pie.
  Tibbitts was tossed by a Kensington cow,
  Bibbitts was hanged on a brambleweed bough,
  And poor little Solomon--what do you think?
  Was drowned one dark night in a bottle of ink.




  UPON THE IRISH SEA


  Some one told Maria Ann,
  Maria Ann told me,
  That kittens ride in coffee cans
  Upon the Irish Sea.

  From quiet caves to rolling waves,
  How jolly it must be
  To travel in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea!

  But when it snows and when it blows,
  How would you like to be
  A kitten in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea?




  DUCKLE, DAISY


  Duckle, duckle, daisy,
  Martha must be crazy,
  She went and made a Christmas cake
  Of olive oil and gluten-flake,
  And set it in the sink to bake,
  Duckle, duckle, daisy.






  I'VE GOT A NEW BOOK


  I've got a new book from my Grandfather Hyde.
  It's skin on the cover and paper inside,
  And reads about Arabs and horses and slaves,
  And tells how the Caliph of Bagdad behaves.
  I'd not take a goat and a dollar beside
  For the book that I got from my Grandfather Hyde.




  THE CARROT AND THE RABBIT


  A carrot in a garden
  And a rabbit in the wood.
  Said the rabbit, "Beg your pardon,
  But you're surely meant for food;
  Though you've started in to harden,
  You may still be very good."




  HIPPY-HI-HOPPY


  Hippy-Hi-Hoppy, the big fat toad,
  Greeted his friends at a turn of the road.

  Said he to the snail:
  "Here's a ring for your tail
  If you'll go into town for my afternoon mail."

  Said he to the rat:
  "I have talked with the cat;
  And she'll nab you so quick you won't know where you're at."

  Said he to the lizard:
  "I'm really no wizard,
  But I'll show you a trick that will tickle your gizzard."

  Said he to the lark:
  "When it gets fairly dark
  We'll chase the mosquitoes in Peek-a-Boo Park."

  Said he to the owl:
  "If it were not for your scowl
  I'd like you as well as most any wild fowl."

  Said he to the wren:
  "You're tiny, but then
  I'll marry you quick, if you'll only say when."






  UP ON THE GARDEN GATE


  Set me up on the garden gate
  And put on my Sunday tie;
  I want to be there
  With a round-eyed stare
  When the circus band goes by.

  Give me a bag of suckerettes
  And give me a piece of gum,
  Then I'll get down
  And treat the clown,
  And give the monkey some.




  'MOST ANY CHIP


  'Most any chip
  Will do for a ship,
  If only the cargo be
  Golden sand
  From the beautiful land
  Of far-off Arcady.
  For faith will waft
  The tiny craft
  O'er Fancy's shining sea.





  A MOON SONG


  Who hung his hat on the moon?
  The owl in his bubble balloon.
  One bright summer night
  He sailed out of sight,
  And, hooting like Lucifer, hung in delight
  His three-cornered hat on the moon.




  WHAT MAKES YOU LAUGH?


  "What makes you laugh, my little lass,
  From morning until noon?"
  "I saw a dappled donkey
  Throwing kisses at the moon."


  "What makes you cry, my little lass,
  And get your eyes so red?"
  "I saw a cruel gardener cut
  A poor old cabbage head."


  "What makes you run, my little lass?
  You're almost out of breath."
  "A pumpkin made a face at me,
  And scared me half to death."




  TIMMY O'TOOLE


  When Timmy O'Toole
  Was going to school
  He picked up a package of gum.
  He treated the preacher
  And Sunday-school teacher,
  And gave a policeman some.




  A MAN CAME FROM MALDEN


  A man came from Malden to buy a blue goose.
  And what became of the gander?
  He went and got tipsy on blackberry juice,
  And that was the end of the gander.




  BARON BATTEROFF


  The mighty baron, Batteroff,
  Raised a whale in a watering trough.
  When the whale grew large and fat
  He ate the baron's brindle cat.
  But pussy, once inside the whale,
  Began to tickle with her tail.
  This the monster could not stand,
  And spewed her out upon dry land.
  That night, when all was fine as silk
  And she had supped her bread and milk,
  She grinned and told old Batteroff
  How she got the whale to cough.




  SIX LITTLE SALMON


  I sing a funny song from away out west,
  Of six little salmon with their hats on;
  How they all left home--but I forget the rest--
  The six little salmon with their hats on.






  TO GARRY ON THE TOOT-TOOT


  Oh, I want to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot,
  You and I together
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot.
  Go run and ask your mother
  For some kind of cake or other,
  And a bit of cotton wadding
  For your ball-suit.
  Get your bobber and a bat,
  And be back as quick as scat,
  For we've got to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot.




  DOUBBLEDOON


  Bobbin rode a rocking-horse
  'Way down to Doubbledoon,
  He told his little sister
  He'd be back that afternoon.
  But maybe after all she didn't
  Understand him right,
  For he wasn't back again
  Till the middle of the night.

  And what did little Bobbin see
  'Way down at Doubbledoon?
  He saw a crazy Arab
  Throwing bubbles at the moon,
  A monkey making faces
  And a rabbit in a rage,
  A parrot shouting "Murder!"
  From the ceiling of his cage.

  At last a yellow jumping-jack,
  A camel, and a coon,
  Chased poor little Bobbin
  All the way from Doubbledoon.






  THE PARTY


  Billy Bluebird had a party
  In an elder tree,
  But the little black-eyed smarty
  Didn't ask us to his party
  Neither you nor me.

  This is what they had for dinner,
  For I peeked to see:
  Apple seeds and beetle finner,
  And for drink the little sinner
  Gave them tansy tea.

  But there came an awful clatter
  From that elder tree,
  When he served them on a platter
  Hopper-hash and brick-dust batter
  Trimmed with celery!

  All the folks were hale and hearty,
  Happy as could be;
  And that little black-eyed smarty
  Left out of his funny party
  Only you and me.






  I'VE GOT A YELLOW PUPPY


  I've got a yellow puppy,
  And I've got a speckled hen,
  I've got a lot of little
  Spotted piggies in a pen.
  I've got a gun that used to shoot,
  Another one that squirts,
  I've got some horehound candy
  And a pair of woolen shirts.
  I've got a little rubber ball
  They use for playing golf,
  And mamma thinks that's maybe why
  I've got the whooping-cough.





  DOCTOR McSWATTLE


  Doctor McSwattle
  Filled up a bottle
  With vinegar, varnish, and rum.
  And offered a swallow
  To all who would follow
  The call of his trumpet and drum.
  It's good, I am told,
  For a cough or a cold;
  It's good for a pain in your thumb.




  COLUMBUS


  Columbus sailed over the ocean blue
  To find the United States.
  In three small ships he carried his crew,
  And none of the three were mates.

  He found a land in the western seas,
  And Indians galore,
  With jabbering parrots in the trees,
  And sharks along the shore.


  He filled his pockets with sparkling stones
  And took to the mighty main,
  With a couple of slaves, some nuts and cones
  For the glorious king of Spain.

  Now this is the tale Columbus told,
  And most of the tale is true,
  How he crossed the seas, a sailor bold,
  In fourteen-ninety-two.





  TERRIBLE TIM


  Haven't you heard of Terrible Tim!
  Well, don't you get in the way of him.
  He eats lions for breakfast
  And leopards for lunch,
  And gobbles them down
  With one terrible crunch.
  He could mix a whole city
  All up in a mess,
  He could drink up a sea
  Or an ocean, I guess.
  You'd better be watching for Terrible Tim,
  And run when you first get your peepers on him.




  WHAT'S THE USE?


  "What's the use,"
  Said the goose,
  "To swim like a frog,
  When you go just as far
  If you float on a log?"

  "Why should I,"
  Said the fly,
  "Suck an old apple-core,
  When there's sugar and fruit
  In the grocery store?"

  "It's but right,"
  Said the kite,
  "That I follow the wind.
  What's a fellow to do
  If he hasn't a mind?"

  "You'll allow,"
  Said the cow,
  "That I'm really no thief,
  When I turn all the clover
  I steal, into beef."

  "Come again,"
  Said the hen,
  "On some other fine day.
  Don't think 'cause I cackle
  I always must lay."




  ALL ABOARD FOR BOMBAY


  All aboard for Bombay,
  All aboard for Rome!
  Leave your little sisters
  And your loving aunts at home.

  Bring a bit of bailing wire,
  A pocketful of nails,
  And half a dozen wiener-wursts
  For every man that sails.

  Tell Terry Tagg, when you go by,
  Be sure to bring his dog.
  All aboard for Bombay
  On a floating cedar log!






  WATER


  There's water in the rain barrel,
  And water in the well,
  There's lots of water in the pond
  Where Hannah Hawkins fell.

  There's water in the ocean,
  And water in the skies,
  And when a fellow blubbers
  He gets water in his eyes.

  But in the Barca desert
  Where the hippodoodles play,
  The water in the rivers
  Just dries up and blows away.




  OLD MOLLY IS LOWING


  Old Molly is lowing and lowing
  'Way down in the old meadow lot.
  I've given her water and clover,
  And all of the apples I've got;
  But she won't eat a thing that I give her,
  And never drinks even a sup,
  For they've taken her baby to market
  And some one has eaten it up.
  I'd just like to go to the city
  And cut them all up into halves
  And feed them to sharks and to lions--
  Those people that eat little calves.





  SNOWFLAKES


  The snowflakes are falling by ones and by twos;
  There's snow on my jacket, and snow on my shoes;
  There's snow on the bushes, and snow on the trees--
  It's snowing on everything now, if you please.






  DIPPY-DIPPY-DAVY


  Dippy-Dippy-Davy,
  Half the Royal Navy
  In the dampness and the dark
  Was driving off a savage shark
  To Dippy-Dippy-Davy.





  WHEN I'M AS RICH
  AS UNCLE CLAUS


  When I'm as rich as Uncle Claus,
  With whiskers on my chin,
  I'm going to have a great big house
  To put my people in.

  I'll never let them wander out
  Or ride with me to town;
  They'll come a-running when I shout
  And tremble when I frown.

  I'll have some men in soldier tents,
  A pirate and his mate,
  And wildcats all around the fence,
  And mad dogs on the gate.




  RINKY-TATTLE


  Rinky-tattle, rinky-tattle,
  Rinky-tattle--who?
  Little Tommy Taylor
  Is a rinky-tattle too.





  TWENTY LITTLE SNOWFLAKES


  Twenty little snowflakes climbing up a wire.
  "Now, listen," said their mother, "don't you climb up any higher.
  The sun will surely catch you, and scorch you with his fire."
  But the naughty little snowflakes didn't mind a word she said,
  Each tried to clamber faster than his fellow just ahead;
  They thought that they'd be back in time enough to go to bed.
  But they found out that their mother wasn't quite the dunce they
        thought her,
  The sun bobbed up--remember this, my little son and daughter--
  And turned those twenty snowflakes into twenty drops of water.





  SLIPPERY SLIM


  Slippery Slim, a garter snake,
  Leaned against a garden rake
  And smiled a sentimental smile
  At Tilly Toad, on the gravel pile,
  Till that bashful miss was forced to hop
  And hide her face in a carrot-top.





  THE FREIGHTER


  Through fog and rain
  I run my train
  Wherever the track is laid,
  And over the road
  I carry a load
  Whenever the freight is paid.

  A kaddy of tea
  For Genessee,
  For Troy an empty crate,
  A man in brown
  For Uniontown
  To help them celebrate.




  NO ONE AT HOME


  No one at home in the hen-house,
  And no one at home in the barn,
  Old Brindle has gone to the neighbor's
  To borrow a skein of brown yarn,
  To borrow yarn for the darning
  Of socks for her wee spotted calf--

  The little rollicking rascal
  Has never enough by half.
  And Speckle is down by the willow
  Washing her chicks in the lake,
  While old Daddy Cockle is lying
  Abed with a bad toothache.




  PATTERS AND TATTERS


  Patters had a gallant band,
  An army made of clay.
  But Tatters took the garden hose
  And washed them all away.






  CROWN THE KING WITH CARROT TOPS


  Crown the king with carrot tops,
  Dress him in sateen,
  Give him lots of licorice drops,
  With suckers in between.

  For he's a king with lots of power
  And awful, awful fierce,
  He kills a pirate every hour
  And washes in his tears.

  He rides a charger ten feet high,
  A dashing, dappled gray;
  Has ginger pop and lemon pie
  For breakfast every day.

  So get a royal canopy,
  The finest ever seen,
  And whiskers for his majesty,
  And tresses for the queen.




  THE CANADA GOOSE


  A Canada goose
  On the South Palouse
  Is singing her summer song.
  Her words are wise,
  And she greets the skies
  With a voice like a steamer gong:
  "If you harbor your wealth
  And keep your health,
  You'll always be rich and strong."





  HIPPERTY, CLICKERTY, CLACKERTY, BANG


  Hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!
  The sideboard is tipsy, the table is mad,
  The chairs have lost all the sense that they had.
  So hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!





  SONNY


  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And sent him out to buy a ton of coal;
  But he met a poor old miser
  Who told him it were wiser
  To bury all his money in a hole.

  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And told him he should buy a suit of clothes;
  But he saw a pretty maiden
  With all kinds of posies laden,
  And he gave her all his money for a rose.

  Then the sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  To buy a little garden and a house;
  But he found him the next day,
  In a shop on Yesler Way,
  A-buying cheese and crackers for a mouse.





  THE STOVE


  A stove is a thing that gets awfully hot,
  And fries up your meat, or whatever you've got.
  It's made out of iron and hinges and screws,
  And filled up with shakers, and dampers, and flues.
  It's not very long and it's not very wide;
  It's got black'ning on top and ashes inside.





  THE THUNDER BABY


  Have you heard of the Thunder Baby
  Way up in the big blue sky?
  You've seen his cradle, maybe,
  And maybe you've heard him cry.

  Most of the time he's sleeping,
  Rolled up in a big white cloud,
  But when he's awake and hungry
  He bellows awfully loud.

  And when he's crying, sometimes
  You can hear his teardrops fall
  With a patter, patter, patter,
  Against the garden wall.

  But when he's madder'n mischief,
  He rolls, and growls, and spits,
  And kicks the clouds all forty ways,
  And gives the weather fits.

  Then tears come down in bucketfuls,
  And children dance for joy,
  Till the sun comes out and soundly spanks
  Her Thunder Baby Boy.






  HINKY, PINKY, PEARLY EARL


  Hinky, pinky, pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl;
  Some are fat and some are lean,
  One in red and one in green--
  Prior, priest, and pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl.





  TIPSY TOM


  Tipsy Tom, the naughty fellow,
  Dressed his wife in pink and yellow,
  Set her in an apple tree,
  And said: "Now catch a bumblebee."




  JOLLY JINKS


  Jolly Jinks, the sailor man,
  Went to sea in an oyster can.
  But he found the water wet,
  Fishes got into his net,
  So he pulled his boat to shore
  And vowed he'd sail the seas no more.




  TRANSFORMATION


  Auntie Ellen found her poodle--
  Mercy! Goodness sake!--
  Playing with the mully-wumps
  Down along the lake.

  And when she called him tenderly
  He didn't want to come;
  It took her over half an hour
  To get the rascal home.

  She washed him well with shaving-soap,
  Pumice stone and lye,
  She showered him and she scoured him
  And she hung him up to dry.

  And now he sits there quite serene,
  The sweetest poodle ever seen.






  THE THIEF CHASE


  Bricks and bones!
  Sticks and stones!
  I chased a thief through twenty zones.

  I found his hat
  On Ararat,
  And hurried on as quick as scat.

  In a day or two
  I found his shoe
  Where he had sailed for Timbuktu.

  I met the goat
  That ate his coat
  Upon the road to Terre Haute.

  At last all worn
  And quite forlorn
  I chased him up the Matterhorn.




  SOMEBODY


  Somebody give me a peanut,
  Somebody give me a pear;
  I want to go down to the circus
  And feed all the animals there.





  CONSOLATION


  A dime and a dollar
  Took me by the collar
  And whispered this word in my ear:

  "We must leave you to-morrow,
  But prithee don't sorrow,
  We'll come back to see you next year."




  THE ROBIN AND THE SQUIRREL


  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How are you?"
  "Oh, I've got some cherry pies,
  And a half a dozen flies,
  And a kettle full of beetles on to stew."


  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How are you?"
  "I've a nest that's nice and neat,
  And a wife that can't be beat,
  And I'm every bit as happy now as you."




  THE KING HAD A PLATTER


  The King had a platter
  Of brisket and batter,
  The Prince had a Bellington bun,
  The Queen had a rose
  To put to her nose
  As soon as the dinner was done.





  RAIN


  The lightning split the sky in two
  And set the clouds to leaking
  Just as dear old Pastor Brown
  Began his Sunday speaking.

  He told about the awful rain
  That fell in Noah's day,
  And one by one the happy smiles
  Began to fade away.

  In half an hour the people all
  Put on their rubber coats,
  And when he finished everyone
  Was out and building boats.




  OLD FATHER McNETHER


  Old Father McNether
  He sorts out the weather
  And takes what he pleases, I'm told,
  With a big turkey-feather
  He mixes the weather,
  And makes it blow hot and blow cold.

  




  JERRY WAS A JOKER


  Jerry was a joker.
  He carried off the poker
  And dressed it up from head to heel
  In clover-tops and orange-peel
  And fed it bones and barley meal.
  Poor old Rusty Poker!





  KING KOKEM


  King Kokem lay snoozing upon his brass bed--
  Oh, play an old tune on your fiddle!
  With shoes on his feet, and a crown on his head--
  Oh, tune up your rusty old fiddle!

  He dreamed of a land where the lions were tame,
  Where they fried their lamb-chops on a griddle,
  Where they called all the parrots and monkeys by name--
  Oh, play us a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sea filled with raspberry pop,
  With a cocoanut isle in the middle,
  Where the stones and the boulders had icing on top--
  Go strike up a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sky where the moonbeams all danced
  While a comet was telling a riddle,
  Where the stars and the planets and sun-dogs all pranced
  While the moon played his fiddle de diddle.






  OLD MISSUS SKINNER


  Old Missus Skinner
  Had dumplings for dinner
  And sat on a very high stool;
  When she cut thru the hide
  There was nothing inside,
  Which I'm sure was not often the rule.





  OH, MOTHER


  Oh, Mother, Oh, Mother,
  Come quickly and see,
  The house and the farmyard
  Have gone on a spree.

  The pig's in the pantry,
  The chickens are out,
  The parrot is perched
  On the tea kettle spout.

  And mercy, Oh, mercy,
  Oh, what shall I do?
  A rat has run off
  With my very best shoe.




  CELLA REE AND TOMMY TO


  Two funny friends that you all know
  Are Cella Ree and Tommy To.
  About as queer as friends can be,
  Are Tommy To and Cella Ree.
  For hours they sit there grim and stable
  Side by side upon the table.
  Tom is red and Cella pale,
  His blushes are of no avail;
  She sits, in spite of his endeavor,
  As firm and undisturbed as ever,
  A funny pair, you must agree,
  This Tommy To and Cella Ree.






  IF I WERE RICHER


  If I were richer
  I'd buy a pitcher
  With scenery on it.
  'Jolica ware--
  Storks here and there,
  And a funny affair
  With ladies on it.

  In half a minute
  I'd mix up in it
  A wonderful drink--
  Peppermint, ice,
  Lemons and spice--
  Taste pretty nice,
  What do you think?




  THE ARMY OF THE QUEEN


  O the Army of the Queen,
  The Army of the Queen,
  Some are dressed in turkey-red
  And some are dressed in green;
  A colonel and a captain,
  A corporal in between,
  Their guns are filled with powder
  And their swords are bright and keen;
  So toot your little trumpet
  For the Army of the Queen.





  ROMULUS


  Romulus, Romulus,
  Father of Rome,
  Ran off with a wolf
  And he wouldn't come home.

  When he grew up
  He founded a city
  With an eagle, a bear,
  And a tortoise-shell kitty.





  THE HERO


  My dad was a soldier and fought in the wars,
  My grandfather fought on the sea,
  And the tales of their daring and valor of course
  Put the sand and the ginger in me.

  I'm not scared of tigers or any wild beast,
  I could fight with a lion all right,
  I wouldn't be 'fraid of a bear in the least--
  Excepting, perhaps, in the night.

  But sister, she's skeery as skeery can be,
  She's even afraid of the bark of a tree.




  PENSIVE PERCY


  Percy when a little boy
  Was quiet as a mouse,
  He never set the barn afire
  Nor battered down the house.

  He used to sit for hours and hours
  Just gazing at the moon,
  And feeding little fishes
  Sarsaparilla from a spoon.






  MOON, O MOON IN THE EMPTY SKY


  Moon, O Moon in the empty sky,
  Why do you swing so low?
  Pretty moon with the silver ring
  And the long bright beams where the fairies cling,
  Where do you always go?

  I go to the land of the Siamese,
  Ceylon and the Great Plateau,
  Over the seas where Sinbad sailed,
  Where Moses crossed and Pharaoh failed,--
  There's where I always go.





  THE RAG-MAN


  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Taggy, taggy, rag-man,
  Tell us what you've got there in your sack."

  "Oh--it's full of rimes and riddles,
  Jingles, jokes, and hi-de-diddles--
  This bundle that I carry on my back."

  "O tell us, funny rag-man,
  Grinny, skinny rag-man,
  Where did you pick up your funny rimes?"

  "Some were dancing with corn-flowers,
  Some were hiding in church-towers,
  And sprinkled helter-skelter by the chimes."

  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Nice old taggy rag-man,
  Sing us just one jingle, tingle song."

  "Why, my dears, I've got a plenty,
  Sing you one? I'll sing you twenty--
  I've been hoping you would ask me all along."




  WHENEVER I GO OUT TO WALK


  Whenever I go out to walk,
  All the geese begin to gawk;
  And when I start to wander back,
  All the ducks begin to quack.






  A FREE SHOW


  Mister McCune
  Can whistle a tune,

  Old Uncle Strong
  Can sing us a song,

  Benjamin Biddle
  Can play on the fiddle,

  Captain O'Trigg
  Can dance us a jig,

  And I, if I'm able,
  Will tell you a fable.




  BILLY BUMPKINS


  Heigho, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you grow your pumpkins?
  "At six o'clock I sows 'em,
  At ten o'clock I hoes 'em,
  An' jes before I goes to bed
  I puts 'em in the pumpkin shed."

  Tell us, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you sell your pumpkins?
  "I lends 'em to the ladies,
  I gives 'em to the babies,
  An' trades a hundred for a kiss
  To any pretty little miss."





  BLUE FLAMES AND RED FLAMES


  Blue flames and red flames
  In a world all dark;
  Blue flames and red flames,
  And a tiny spark
  Hurrying to heaven, lest it should be late;
  Lest the cautious seraphim close the shining gate,
  And leave the little wanderer forevermore to fly
  Like an orphan angel through the endless sky.




  TIMOTHY GRADY


  Poor little Timothy Grady
  Screwed up his face at a lady,
  And, jiminy jack!
  It wouldn't come back.
  The louder he hollered
  The tighter it grew,
  His eyes are all red
  And his lips are all blue.
  Oh, mercy me, what in the world will he do?
  Poor little Timothy Grady!




  CAPTAIN TICKLE AND HIS NICKEL


  Captain Tickle had a nickel
  In a paper sack,
  He threw it in the river
  And he couldn't get it back.
  Captain Tickle spent his nickel
  For a rubber ball,
  And when he cut it open
  There was nothing there at all.






  GRANDMOTHER GRUNDY


  O Grandmother Grundy,
  Now what would you say
  If the katydids carried
  Your glasses away--

  Carried them off
  To the top of the sky
  And used them to watch
  The eclipses go by?




  NEEDLES AND PINS


  Needles and pins, hooks and eyes!
  I saw a doughnut in the skies.
  Flipperjinks the circus clown
  Climbed a tree and got it down.





  A TOE RIME


  Tassle is a captain,
  Tinsel is a mayor,
  Tony is a baker-boy
  With 'lasses in his hair,
  Tipsy is a sailor,
  With anchors on his chest,
  And Tiny is the baby boy
  Who bosses all the rest.




  HARRY HOOKER


  Harry Hooker had a book
  And couldn't find a teacher.
  But still he managed very well,
  He climbed a box and rang a bell
  And turned into a preacher.





  JELLY JAKE AND BUTTER BILL



  Jelly Jake and Butter Bill
  One dark night when all was still
  Pattered down the long, dark stair,
  And no one saw the guilty pair;
  Pushed aside the pantry-door
  And there found everything galore,--
  Honey, raisins, orange-peel,
  Cold chicken aplenty for a meal,
  Gingerbread enough to fill
  Two such boys as Jake and Bill.
  Well, they ate and ate and ate,
  Gobbled at an awful rate
  Till I'm sure they soon weighed more
  Than double what they did before.
  And then, it's awful, still it's true,
  The floor gave way and they went thru.
  Filled so full they couldn't fight.
  Slowly they sank out of sight.
  Father, Mother, Cousin Ann,
  Cook and nurse and furnace man
  Fished in forty-dozen ways
  After them, for twenty days;
  But not a soul has chanced to get
  A glimpse or glimmer of them yet.
  And I'm afraid we never will--
  Poor Jelly Jake and Butter Bill.





  CUT UP A CAPER


  Cut up a caper,
  You've got a paper
  And I've got a widget of string.
  You be the army
  And let nothing harm me
  For I am the captain and king.






  EAT, EAT, EAT


  Here come the sweet potatoes
  And here's the Sunday meat,
  I guess we must be ready now
  To eat, eat, eat.

  I'm going to have the nicey plate
  And Daddy's leather seat,
  And wear my patent-leather shoes
  To eat, eat, eat.

  My Daddy's talking all about
  The war, and some old fleet,
  I wonder if he never, never,
  Never wants to eat.

  We're going to have some apple-cake,
  We're going to have a treat.
  O hurry, hurry, Daddy,
  Let us eat, eat, eat.





  HETTY HUTTON


  Hetty Hutton,
  Here's a button,
  Sew it on your dress.

  Willie Waller,
  Here's a dollar,
  Maybe more or less.

  Mister Shuster,
  Here's a rooster,
  Put him in a pen.

  Mister Saxon,
  Get an ax an'
  Let him out again.





  A BIG, FAT POTATO


  A big, fat potato lay down on a clod
  In the shade of some burdock and tall goldenrod,
  And he dreamed he were king of the whole garden plot,
  With a palace and throne, and a crown with a lot
  Of jewels and diamonds and gold till it shone
  Like the front of a show when the lights are turned on.
  He had to be minded by all of the plants;
  When he whistled the radishes knew they must dance;
  When he tooted his horn the cucumbers must sing
  To a vegetable crowd gathered round in a ring.
  He made all the cabbages stand in a row
  While a sunflower instructed them just how to grow;
  The bright yellow pumpkins he painted light blue;
  Took the clothes off the scare-crow and made him buy new.
  He strutted and sputtered and thought it was grand
  To be king and commander o'er all the wide land.
  But at last he woke up with an awful surprise
  And found a blind mole kicking sand in his eyes.





  A BUNDLE OF HAY


  A bundle of hay
  From Baffin's Bay,
  A johnny-cake from Rome,
  A man and a mule
  From Ultima Thule
  To carry the cargo home.






  PETER, POPPER


  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan,
  Catch a moonbeam if you can;
  Climb a cedar ten feet high
  And pick the planets from the sky.
  You're a wonder, little man--
  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan.




  OLD FATHER ANNUM


  Old Father Annum on New Year's Day
  Picked up his bag of months and years,
  Thrust in his hand in a careless way,
  And pulled a wee fellow out by the ears.
  "There you are," said he to the waiting crowd,
  "He's as good as any I have in my pack.
  I never can tell, but I hope to be proud
  Of the little rascal when I come back."

  




  THE TIPPANY FLOWER


  O what will you take for a tippany flower,
  And what will you take for a pansy?
  I'll take a smile for the tippany flower,
  And a kiss for the pretty pansy.





  HERE COMES A CABBAGE


  Here comes a cabbage with a bonnet on its head,
  A pretty purple bonnet with a bow of blue and red;
  And here comes a bottle with a collar 'round its neck,
  A handsome linen collar, too, without a spot or speck;
  Next comes a meat-saw, his job is biting beef,
  And according to the cleaver he has gold in all his teeth;
  And last of all there comes along, amid the ringing cheers,
  A princely Indian corn-stalk with rings in both his ears.





  PLENTY


  There are plenty feathers on a hen
  And prickers on a rose,
  There is plenty roaring in a den
  Of lions, goodness knows;

  There are plenty fishes in the lake
  And islands in the sea;
  There are plenty raisins in this cake
  For even you and me.




  THE RUNAWAYS


  A pipe and a spoon and a tenpenny nail
  Stole a tin dishpan and went for a sail.
  But the cook he grew curious,
  Fussy, and furious;
  Gathered his trappings, and went on their trail.
  He found them that night in a pitiful plight,
  And sent them all home on the ten o'clock mail.





 

  THE SALESMAN


  Hi! Hi! Who will buy
  A wee little cloud for the pretty blue sky?
  Some are purple, some are red,
  And all are soft as a feather bed.
  Hi! Little children, won't any one buy
  One little cloud for the pretty blue sky?




  A RACE, A RACE TO MOSCOW


  A race, a race to Moscow,
  Before the close of day!
  A race, a race to Moscow,
  A long, long way!
  First comes a butterfly a-riding on a frog,
  Next comes a water rat a-floating on a log;
  A caterpillar on the fence, a hopper in the hay--
  Who'll get to Moscow before the close of day?





  A PRINCE FROM PEPPERVILLE


  A prince came down from Pepperville
  In satin and in lace,
  He wore a bonnet on his head
  And whiskers on his face.

  And when he came to Battleburg
  This is what befell:
  He gave the king and cabinet
  A half a peanut shell.





  BOATS


  Hitch up your cattle
  And drive to Seattle
  To see all the boats come in,--
  From Kibi and Kobi
  And Panama Dobi
  And some from the Islands of Myn.
  They're bringing us rices
  And cocoa and spices
  And pineapples done up in tin,
  And maybe Aunt Dinah
  Will come back from China
  If ever the boats get in.




  PRETTY THINGS


  Pretty poppies,
  Pretty trees,
  Pretty little lettuce-leaves,
  Pretty pebbles,
  Red and brown,
  Pretty floating thistle-down.
  Pretty baby,
  Curly head,
  Standing in a pansy-bed,
  Pretty clouds
  All white and curled--
  O the great, big pretty world!





  DID YOU EVER?


  Did you ever go to the watering trough
  And watch the sparrows drink?
  Did you ever go to Potter's pond
  And see the divers sink?
  Did you ever steal to the barn at night
  And watch the hoot-owls think?





  HOOTEM, TOOTEM, CLEAR THE TRACK


  Hootem, tootem, clear the track!
  I caught a coon on Kamiak!
  Colonel Clapp and Uncle Rome
  Have hired a hack to bring it home.




  DOCTOR DRAKE


  On a hummock by the lake
  Stands the home of Doctor Drake,
  Poor old doctor, how he works!
  Week by week he never shirks--

  Pulling teeth for guinea-fowl,
  Soothing puppies when they howl,
  Whittling out a hickory peg
  For a gander's broken leg,

  Giving medicine away
  About a hundred times a day,
  Linseed oil and elder-bark
  To a croaking meadowlark,

  Nasty, bitter yarrow-tea
  To a tipsy bumble-bee,
  A poultice made of plantain leaves
  To cure a rabbit with the heaves.

  Fever, colic, cramp, or stitch,
  Kitten-croup or beaver's-itch,
  Any kind of pain or ache
  Is cured by dear, old Doctor Drake.





  BABIES


  Come to the land where the babies grow,
  Like flowers in the green, green grass.
  Tiny babes that swing and crow
  Whenever the warm winds pass,
  And laugh at their own bright eyes aglow
  In a fairy looking-glass.

  Come to the sea where the babies sail
  In ships of shining pearl,
  Borne to the west by a golden gale
  Of sun-beams all awhirl;
  And perhaps a baby brother will sail
  To you, my little girl.




  TWENTY THIEVES FROM ALBION


  Twenty thieves from Albion,
  All with butcher knives,
  Coming on the dead run,
  Fighting for their lives.

  See the man from our town.
  In a fancy vest,
  Knocking all the big ones down,
  Chasing all the rest.






  AS I CAME OUT OF GRUNDY GREET


  As I came out of Grundy Greet
  Four cats were marching down the street

  One was long and gray and thin
  With lots of whiskers on his chin,

  And one was round and sleek and fat
  (He must have been a butcher's cat).

  One was dapper, slight, and frail,
  With bells and tassels on his tail,

  And one had starey yellow eyes
  Almost as big as pumpkin pies.

  These four came marching down the street
  As I came out of Grundy Greet.





    THE GNOMIES


    As I lay awake in the white moonlight,
    I heard a sweet singing in the wood--
          'Out of bed,
          Sleepyhead,
          Put your white foot now,
          Here are we,
          'Neath the tree,
          Singing round the root now!'

    I looked out of window in the white moonlight,
    The trees were like snow in the wood--
          'Come away
          Child and play,
          Light wi' the gnomies;
          In a mound,
          Green and round,
          That's where their home is!
          'Honey sweet,
          Curds to eat,
          Cream and frumènty,
          Shells and beads,
          Poppy seeds,
          You shall have plenty.'

    But soon as I stooped in the dim moonlight
    To put on my stocking and my shoe,
    The sweet, sweet singing died sadly away,
    And the light of the morning peep'd through:
    Then instead of the gnomies there came a red robin
    To sing of the buttercups and dew.




    BLUEBELLS


    Where the bluebells and the wind are,
    Fairies in a ring I spied,
    And I heard a little linnet
    Singing near beside.

    Where the primrose and the dew are,
    Soon were sped the fairies all:
    Only now the green turf freshens,
    And the linnets call.




    LOVELOCKS


    I watched the Lady Caroline
    Bind up her dark and beauteous hair;
    Her face was rosy in the glass,
    And 'twixt the coils her hands would pass,
        White in the candleshine.

    Her bottles on the table lay,
    Stoppered yet sweet of violet;
    Her image in the mirror stooped
    To view those locks as lightly looped
        As cherry-boughs in May.

    The snowy night lay dim without,
    I heard the Waits their sweet song sing;
    The window smouldered keen with frost;
    Yet still she twisted, sleeked and tossed
        Her beauteous hair about.




    O DEAR ME!


    Here are crocuses, white, gold, grey!
      'O dear me!' says Marjorie May;
    Flat as a platter the blackberry blows:
      'O dear me!' says Madeleine Rose;
    The leaves are fallen, the swallows flown:
      'O dear me!' says Humphrey John;
    Snow lies thick where all night it fell:
      'O dear me!' says Emmanuel.




    TARTARY


    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Myself and me alone,
    My bed should be of ivory,
      Of beaten gold my throne;
    And in my court should peacocks flaunt,
    And in my forests tigers haunt,
    And in my pools great fishes slant
      Their fins athwart the sun.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Trumpeters every day
    To all my meals should summon me,
      And in my courtyards bray;
    And in the evenings lamps should shine,
    Yellow as honey, red as wine,
    While harp, and flute, and mandoline,
      Made music sweet and gay.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      I'd wear a robe of beads,
    White, and gold, and green they'd be--
      And small, and thick as seeds;
    And ere should wane the morning-star,
    I'd don my robe and scimitar,
    And zebras seven should draw my car
      Through Tartary's dark glades.

    Lord of the fruits of Tartary,
      Her rivers silver-pale!
    Lord of the hills of Tartary,
      Glen, thicket, wood, and dale!
    Her flashing stars, her scented breeze,
    Her trembling lakes, like foamless seas,
    Her bird-delighting citron-trees
      In every purple vale!




    THE BUCKLE


    I had a silver buckle,
    I sewed it on my shoe,
    And 'neath a sprig of mistletoe
    I danced the evening through!

    I had a bunch of cowslips,
    I hid 'em in a grot,
    In case the elves should come by night
    And me remember not.

    I had a yellow riband,
    I tied it in my hair,
    That, walking in the garden,
    The birds might see it there.

    I had a secret laughter,
    I laughed it near the wall:
    Only the ivy and the wind
    May tell of it at all.




    THE HARE


    In the black furrow of a field
    I saw an old witch-hare this night;
    And she cocked her lissome ear,
    And she eyed the moon so bright,
    And she nibbled o' the green;
    And I whispered 'Whsst! witch-hare,'
    Away like a ghostie o'er the field
    She fled, and left the moonlight there.




    BUNCHES OF GRAPES


    'Bunches of grapes,' says Timothy;
    'Pomegranates pink,' says Elaine;
    'A junket of cream and a cranberry tart
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Love-in-a-mist,' says Timothy;
    'Primroses pale,' says Elaine;
    'A nosegay of pinks and mignonette
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Chariots of gold,' says Timothy;
    'Silvery wings,' says Elaine;
    'A bumpity ride in a wagon of hay
      For me,' says Jane.




    JOHN MOULDY


    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.

    He read no book, he snuffed no candle;
    The rats ran in, the rats ran out;
    And far and near, the drip of water
      Went whisp'ring about.

    The dusk was still, with dew a-falling,
    I saw the Dog-star bleak and grim,
    I saw a slim brown rat of Norway
      Creep over him.

    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.




    THE FLY


    How large unto the tiny fly
      Must little things appear!--
    A rosebud like a feather bed,
      Its prickle like a spear;

    A dewdrop like a looking-glass,
      A hair like golden wire;
    The smallest grain of mustard-seed
      As fierce as coals of fire;

    A loaf of bread, a lofty hill;
      A wasp, a cruel leopard;
    And specks of salt as bright to see
      As lambkins to a shepherd.




    SONG


    O for a moon to light me home!
      O for a lanthorn green!
    For those sweet stars the Pleiades,
    That glitter in the twilight trees;
      O for a lovelorn taper! O
      For a lanthorn green!

    O for a frock of tartan!
      O for clear, wild, grey eyes!
    For fingers light as violets,
    'Neath branches that the blackbird frets;
      O for a thistly meadow! O
      For clear, wild grey eyes!

    O for a heart like almond boughs!
      O for sweet thoughts like rain!
    O for first-love like fields of grey,
    Shut April-buds at break of day!
      O for a sleep like music!
      For still dreams like rain!




    I SAW THREE WITCHES


    I saw three witches
    That bowed down like barley,
    And took to their brooms 'neath a louring sky,
    And, mounting a storm-cloud,
    Aloft on its margin,
    Stood black in the silver as up they did fly.

    I saw three witches
    That mocked the poor sparrows
    They carried in cages of wicker along,
    Till a hawk from his eyrie
    Swooped down like an arrow,
    And smote on the cages, and ended their song.

    I saw three witches
    That sailed in a shallop,
    All turning their heads with a truculent smile,
    Till a bank of green osiers
    Concealed their grim faces,
    Though I heard them lamenting for many a mile.

    I saw three witches
    Asleep in a valley,
    Their heads in a row, like stones in a flood,
    Till the moon, creeping upward,
    Looked white through the valley,
    And turned them to bushes in bright scarlet bud.




    THE SILVER PENNY


    'Sailorman, I'll give to you
      My bright silver penny,
    If out to sea you'll sail me
      And my dear sister Jenny.'

    'Get in, young sir, I'll sail ye
      And your dear sister Jenny,
    But pay she shall her golden locks
      Instead of your penny.'

    They sail away, they sail away,
      O fierce the winds blew!
    The foam flew in clouds,
      And dark the night grew!

    And all the wild sea-water
      Climbed steep into the boat;
    Back to the shore again
      Sail they will not.

    Drowned is the sailorman,
      Drowned is sweet Jenny,
    And drowned in the deep sea
      A bright silver penny.




    THE NIGHT-SWANS


    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene,
    Save for the beating of her heart,
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    She sings across the waters clear
    And dark with trees and stars between,
    The notes her fairy godmother
    Taught her, the child Evangeline.

    As might the unrippled pool reply,
    Faltering an answer far and sweet,
    Three swans as white as mountain snow
    Swim mantling to her feet.

    And still upon the lake they stay,
    Their eyes black stars in all their snow,
    And softly, in the glassy pool,
    Their feet beat darkly to and fro.

    She rides upon her little boat,
    Her swans swim through the starry sheen,
    Rowing her into Fairyland--
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene;
    Voices shall call in vain again
    On earth the child Evangeline.

    'Evangeline! Evangeline!'
    Upstairs, downstairs, all in vain.
    Her room is dim; her flowers faded;
    She answers not again.




    THE FAIRIES DANCING


    I heard along the early hills,
    Ere yet the lark was risen up,
    Ere yet the dawn with firelight fills
    The night-dew of the bramble-cup,--
    I heard the fairies in a ring
    Sing as they tripped a lilting round
    Soft as the moon on wavering wing.
    The starlight shook as if with sound,
    As if with echoing, and the stars
    Prankt their bright eyes with trembling gleams;
    While red with war the gusty Mars
    Rained upon earth his ruddy beams.
    He shone alone, adown the West,
    While I, behind a hawthorn-bush,
    Watched on the fairies flaxen-tressed
    The fires of the morning flush.
    Till, as a mist, their beauty died,
    Their singing shrill and fainter grew;
    And daylight tremulous and wide
    Flooded the moorland through and through;
    Till Urdon's copper weathercock
    Was reared in golden flame afar,
    And dim from moonlit dreams awoke
    The towers and groves of Arroar.




    REVERIE


    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
       And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
         She paces to.

    Each narrow hoof is lifted high
      Beneath the dark enclust'ring pines,
    A silver ray within his bit
        And bridle shines.

    His eye burns deep, his tail is arched,
      And streams upon the shadowy air,
    The daylight sleeks his jetty flanks,
        His mistress' hair.

    Her habit flows in darkness down,
      Upon the stirrup rests her foot,
    Her brow is lifted, as if earth
        She heeded not.

    'Tis silent in the avenue,
      The sombre pines are mute of song,
    The blue is dark, there moves no breeze
        The boughs among.

    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
      And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
        She paces to.




    THE THREE BEGGARS


    'Twas autumn daybreak gold and wild,
      While past St Ann's grey tower they shuffled,
    Three beggars spied a fairy-child
        In crimson mantle muffled.

    The daybreak lighted up her face
      All pink, and sharp, and emerald-eyed;
    She looked on them a little space,
        And shrill as hautboy cried:--

    'O three tall footsore men of rags
      Which walking this gold morn I see,
    What will ye give me from your bags
        For fairy kisses three?'

    The first, that was a reddish man,
      Out of his bundle takes a crust:
    'La, by the tombstones of St Ann,
        There's fee, if fee ye must!'

    The second, that was a chesnut man,
      Out of his bundle draws a bone:
    'La, by the belfry of St Ann,
        And all my breakfast gone!'

    The third, that was a yellow man,
      Out of his bundle picks a groat,
    'La, by the Angel of St Ann,
        And I must go without.'

    That changeling, lean and icy-lipped,
      Touched crust, and bone, and groat, and lo!
    Beneath her finger taper-tipped
        The magic all ran through.

    Instead of crust a peacock pie,
      Instead of bone sweet venison,
    Instead of groat a white lilie
        With seven blooms thereon.

    And each fair cup was deep with wine:
      Such was the changeling's charity,
    The sweet feast was enough for nine,
        But not too much for three.

    O toothsome meat in jelly froze!
      O tender haunch of elfin stag!
    O rich the odour that arose!
        O plump with scraps each bag!

    There, in the daybreak gold and wild,
      Each merry-hearted beggar man
    Drank deep unto the fairy child,
        And blessed the good St Ann.




    THE DWARF


    'Now, Jinnie, my dear, to the dwarf be off,
        That lives in Barberry Wood,
    And fetch me some honey, but be sure you don't laugh,--
      He hates little girls that are rude, are rude,
        He hates little girls that are rude.'

    Jane tapped at the door of the house in the wood,
        And the dwarf looked over the wall,
    He eyed her so queer, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing at all, at all,
        To keep from laughing at all.

    His shoes down the passage came clod, clod, clod,
        And when he opened the door,
    He croaked so harsh, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing the more, the more,
        To keep from laughing the more.

    As there, with his bushy red beard, he stood,
        Pricked out to double its size,
    He squinted so cross, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep the tears out of her eyes, her eyes,
        To keep the tears out of her eyes.

    He slammed the door, and went clod, clod, clod,
        But while in the porch she bides,
    He squealed so fierce, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from cracking her sides, her sides,
        To keep from cracking her sides.

    He threw a pumpkin over the wall,
        And melons and apples beside,
    So thick in the air, that to see 'em all fall,
      She laughed, and laughed, till she cried, cried, cried,
        Jane laughed and laughed till she cried.

    Down fell her teardrops a pit-apat-pat,
        And red as a rose she grew;--
    'Kah! kah!' said the dwarf, 'is it crying you're at?
      It's the very worst thing you could do, do, do,
        It's the very worst thing you could do.'

    He slipped like a monkey up into a tree,
        He shook her down cherries like rain;
    'See now,' says he, cheeping, 'a blackbird I be,
      Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again-gain-gain,
        Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again.'

    Ah me! what a strange, what a gladsome duet
        From a house i' the deeps of a wood!
    Such shrill and such harsh voices never met yet
      A-laughing as loud as they could-could-could,
        A-laughing as loud as they could.

    Come Jinnie, come dwarf, cocksparrow, and bee,
        There's a ring gaudy-green in the dell,
    Sing, sing, ye sweet cherubs, that flit in the tree;
      La! who can draw tears from a well-well-well,
        Who ever drew tears from a well!




    ALULVAN


    The sun is clear of bird and cloud,
    The grass shines windless, grey, and still,
    In dusky ruin the owl dreams on,
    The cuckoo echoes on the hill;
      Yet soft along Alulvan's walks
        The ghost at noonday stalks.

    His eyes in shadow of his hat
    Stare on the ruins of his house;
    His cloak, up-fasten'd with a brooch,
    Of faded velvet grey as mouse,
      Brushes the roses as he goes:
        Yet wavers not one rose.

    The wild birds in a cloud fly up
    From their sweet feeding in the fruit;
    The droning of the bees and flies
    Rises gradual as a lute;
      Is it for fear the birds are flown,
        And shrills the insect-drone?

    Thick is the ivy o'er Alulvan,
    And crisp with summer-heat its turf;
    Far, far across its empty pastures
    Alulvan's sands are white with surf:
      And he himself is grey as sea,
        Watching beneath an elder-tree.

    All night the fretful, shrill Banshee
    Lurks in the chambers' dark festoons,
    Calling for ever, o'er garden and river,
    Through magpie changing of the moons:
      'Alulvan, O, alas! Alulvan,
        The doom of lone Alulvan!'




    THE PEDLAR


    There came a Pedlar to an evening house;
    Sweet Lettice, from her lattice looking down,
    Wondered what man he was, so curious
    His black hair dangled on his tattered gown:
    Then lifts he up his face, with glittering eyes,--
    'What will you buy, sweetheart?--Here's honeycomb,
    And mottled pippins, and sweet mulberry pies,
    Comfits and peaches, snowy cherry bloom,
    To keep in water for to make night sweet:
    All that you want, sweetheart,--come, taste and eat!'

    Ev'n with his sugared words, returned to her
    The clear remembrance of a gentle voice:--
    'And O! my child, should ever a flatterer
    Tap with his wares, and promise of all joys
    And vain sweet pleasures that on earth may be;
    Seal up your ears, sing some old happy song,
    Confuse his magic who is all mockery:
    His sweets are death.' Yet, still, how she doth long
    But just to taste, then shut the lattice tight,
    And hide her eyes from the delicious sight!

    'What must I pay?' she whispered. 'Pay!' says he,
    'Pedlar I am who through this wood do roam,
    One lock of hair is gold enough for me,
    For apple, peach, comfit, or honeycomb!'
    But from her bough a drowsy squirrel cried,
    'Trust him not, Lettice, trust, oh trust him not!'
    And many another woodland tongue beside
    Rose softly in the silence--'Trust him not!'
    Then cried the Pedlar in a bitter voice,
    'What, in the thicket, is this idle noise?'

    A late, harsh blackbird smote him with her wings,
    As through the glade, dark in the dim, she flew;
    Yet still the Pedlar his old burden sings,--
    'What, pretty sweetheart, shall I show to you?
    Here's orange ribands, here's a string of pearls,
    Here's silk of buttercup and pansy glove,
    A pin of tortoiseshell for windy curls,
    A box of silver, scented sweet with clove:
    Come now,' he says, with dim and lifted face,
    'I pass not often such a lonely place.'

    'Pluck not a hair!' a hidden rabbit cried,
    'With but one hair he'll steal thy heart away,
    Then only sorrow shall thy lattice hide:
    Go in! all honest pedlars come by day.'
    There was dead silence in the drowsy wood;
    'Here's syrup for to lull sweet maids to sleep;
    And bells for dreams, and fairy wine and food
    All day thy heart in happiness to keep';--
    And now she takes the scissors on her thumb,--
    'O, then, no more unto my lattice come!'

    O sad the sound of weeping in the wood!
    Now only night is where the Pedlar was;
    And bleak as frost upon a too-sweet bud
    His magic steals in darkness, O alas!
    Why all the summer doth sweet Lettice pine?
    And, ere the wheat is ripe, why lies her gold
    Hid 'neath fresh new-pluckt sprigs of eglantine?
    Why all the morning hath the cuckoo tolled,
    Sad to and fro in green and secret ways,
    With lonely bells the burden of his days?

    And, in the market-place, what man is this
    Who wears a loop of gold upon his breast,
    Stuck heartwise; and whose glassy flatteries
    Take all the townsfolk ere they go to rest
    Who come to buy and gossip? Doth his eye
    Remember a face lovely in a wood?
    O people! hasten, hasten, do not buy
    His woful wares; the bird of grief doth brood
    There where his heart should be; and far away
    Dew lies on grave-flowers this selfsame day!




    THE GREY WOLF


    'A fagot, a fagot, go fetch for the fire, son!'
      'O, Mother, the wolf looks in at the door!'
    'Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! thou fierce grey wolf fly, now;
      Haste thee away, he will fright thee no more.'

    'I ran, O, I ran, but the grey wolf ran faster,
      O, Mother, I cry in the air at thy door,
    Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! but his fangs were so cruel,
      Thy son (save his hatchet) thou'lt never see more.'




    THE OGRE


    'Tis moonlight on Trebarwith Vale,
      And moonlight on an Ogre keen,
    Who prowling hungry through the dale
      A lone cottage hath seen.

    Small with thin smoke ascending up
      Three casements and a door:--
    The Ogre eager is to sup,
      And here seems dainty store.

    Sweet as a larder to a mouse,
      So to him staring down,
    Seemed the sweet-windowed moonlit house,
      With jasmine overgrown.

    He snorted, as the billows snort
      In darkness of the night,
    Betwixt his lean locks tawny-swart,
      He glowered on the sight.

    Into the garden sweet with peas
      He put his wooden shoe,
    And bending back the apple trees
      Crept covetously through;

    Then, stooping, with an impious eye
      Stared through the lattice small,
    And spied two children which did lie
      Asleep, against the wall.

    Into their dreams no shadow fell,
      Of his disastrous thumb
    Groping discreet, and gradual,
      Across the quiet room.

    But scarce his nail had scraped the cot
      Wherein these children lay,
    As if his malice were forgot,
      It suddenly did stay.

    For faintly in the ingle-nook
      He heard a cradlesong,
    That rose into his thoughts and woke
      Terror them among.

    For she who in the kitchen sat
      Darning by the fire,
    Guileless of what he would be at,
      Sang sweet as wind or wire:--

    'Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie;
    Jesu of glory, meek and mild,
      This night remember ye!

    'Fiend, witch, and goblin, foul and wild,
      He deems 'em smoke to be;
    Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    The Ogre lifted up his eyes
      Into the moon's pale ray,
    And gazed upon her leopard-wise,
      Cruel and clear as day;

    He snarled in gluttony and fear:
      'The wind blows dismally,
    Jesu in storm my lambs be near,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    And like a ravenous beast which sees
      The hunter's icy eye,
    So did this wretch in wrath confess
      Sweet Jesu's mastery.

    He lightly drew his greedy thumb
      From out that casement pale,
    And strode, enormous, swiftly home,
      Whinnying down the dale.




    DAME HICKORY


    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's sticks for your fire,
    Furze-twigs, and oak-twigs,
    And beech-twigs, and briar!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's meat for your broth,
    Goose-flesh, and hare's flesh,
    And pig's trotters both!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's a wolf at your door,
    His teeth grinning white,
    And his tongue wagging sore!'
    'Nay!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie!'
    But a wolf 'twas indeed, and famished was he.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's buds for your tomb,
    Bramble, and lavender,
    And rosemary bloom!'
    'Hush!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie,
    Ye cry like a wolf, ye do, and trouble poor me.'




    THE PILGRIM


    'Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?

    Over hill and over meadow,
    Lighter than an owlet's shadow,
    We will whirl it through the air,
    Through blue regions shrill and bare;

    Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?'

    The Pilgrim lifted up his eyes
    And saw three fiends, in the skies,
    Stooping o'er that lonely place
        Evil in form and face.

    'O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Far it is my feet must wander,
    And my city lieth yonder;
    I must bear my bundle alone,
    Help nor solace suffer none:

    O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    The fiends stared down with greedy eye,
    Fanning the chill air duskily,
    'Twixt their hoods they stoop and cry:--

    'Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?

    Sprinkle it green with gilded showers,
    Strew it o'er with painted flowers?
    Shall we blow sweet airs on it,
    Lure the magpie there to flit?

    Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?'

    'O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Over bog, and fen, and boulder,
    I must bear it on my shoulder,
    Beaten of wind, torn of briar,
    Smitten of rain, parched of fire:

    O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    It seemed a smoke obscured the air,
    Bright lightning quivered in the gloom,
    And a faint voice of thunder spake
    Far in the lone hill-hollows--'Come!'
    Then half in fury, half in dread,
    The fiends drew closer down and said:--

    'Grey old man but sleep awhile;
        Sad old man!

    Thorn, and dust, and ice, and heat;
    Tarry now, sit down and eat;
    Heat, and ice, and dust, and thorn;
    Stricken, footsore, parched, forlorn,--
    Juice of purple grape shall be
    Youth and solace unto thee.

    With sweet wire and reed we'll haunt you;
    Songs of the valley shall enchant you;
    Rest now, lest this night you die:
    Sweet be now our lullaby:

    'Grey old man, come sleep awhile,
        Stubborn old man!'

    The pilgrim crouches terrified
    At stooping hood, and glassy face,
    Gloating, evil, side by side;
    Terror and hate brood o'er the place;
    He flings his withered hands on high
    With a bitter, breaking cry:--

    'Leave me, leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends:
    If I lay me down in slumber,
      Then I lay me down in wrath;
    If I stir not in sweet dreaming,
      Then I wither in my path;
    If I hear sweet voices singing,
        'Tis a demon's lullaby,
    And in "hideous storm and terror"
        Wake but to die!'

    And even while he spake, the sun
    From the sweet hills pierced the gloom,
    Kindling th' affrighted fiends upon.
    Wild flapped their wings, as if in doom,
    He heard a dismal hooting laughter:--

    Nought but a little rain fell after,
    And from the cloud whither they flew
    A storm-sweet lark rose in the blue:
    And his bundle seemed of flowers
        In his solitary hours.




    THE GAGE


    'Lady Jane, O Lady Jane!
    Your hound hath broken bounds again,
      And chased my timorous deer, O;
        If him I see,
        That hour he'll dee;
      My brakes shall be his bier, O.'

    'Lord Aërie, Lord Aërie,
    My hound, I trow, is fleet and free,
      He's welcome to your deer, O;
        Shoot, shoot you may,
        He'll gang his way,
      Your threats we nothing fear, O.'

    He's fetched him in, he's fetched him in,
    Gone all his swiftness, all his din,
      White fang, and glowering eye, O:
        'Here is your beast,
        And now at least
      My herds in peace shall lie, O.'

    "In peace!" my lord, O mark me well!
    For what my jolly hound befell
      You shall sup twenty-fold, O!
        For every tooth
        Of his, i'sooth,
      A stag in pawn I hold, O.

    'Huntsman and horn, huntsman and horn,
    Shall scare your heaths and coverts lorn,
      Braying 'em shrill and clear, O;
        But lone and still
        Shall lift each hill,
      Each valley wan and sere, O.

    'Ride up you may, ride down you may,
    Lonely or trooped, by night or day,
      My hound shall haunt you ever:
        Bird, beast, and game
        Shall dread the same,
      The wild fish of your river.'

    Her cheek is like the angry rose,
    Her eye with wrath and pity flows:
      He gazes fierce and round, O,--
        'Dear Lord!' he says,
        'What loveliness
      To waste upon a hound, O.

    'I'd give my stags, my hills and dales,
    My stormcocks and my nightingales
      To have undone this deed, O;
        For deep beneath
        My heart is death
      Which for her love doth bleed, O.'

    Wanders he up, wanders he down,
    On foot, a-horse, by night and noon:
      His lands are bleak and drear, O;
        Forsook his dales
        Of nightingales,
      Forsook his moors of deer, O.

    Forsook his heart, ah me! of mirth;
    There's nothing lightsome left on earth:
      Only one scene is fain, O,
        Where far remote
        The moonbeams gloat,
      And sleeps the lovely Jane, O.

    Until an eve when lone he went,
    Gnawing his beard in dreariment,
      Lo! from a thicket hidden,
        Lovely as flower
        In April hour,
      Steps forth a form unbidden.

    'Get ye now down, Lord Aërie,
    I'm troubled so I'm like to dee,'
      She cries, 'twixt joy and grief, O;
        'The hound is dead,
        When all is said,
      But love is past belief, O.

    'Nights, nights I've lain your lands to see,
    Forlorn and still--and all for me,
      All for a foolish curse, O;
        Now here am I
        Come out to die,
      To live unlov'd is worse, O!'

    In faith, this lord, in that lone dale,
    Hears now a sweeter nightingale,
      And lairs a tend'rer deer, O;
        His sorrow goes
        Like mountain snows
      In waters sweet and clear, O!

    Let the hound bay in Shadowland,
    Tuning his ear to understand
      What voice hath tamed this Aërie;
        Chafe, chafe he may
        The stag all day,
      And never thirst nor weary.

    Now here he smells, now there he smells,
    Winding his voice along the dells,
      Till grey flows up the morn, O;
        Then hies again
        To Lady Jane,
      No longer now forlorn, O.

    Ay, as it were a bud, did break
    To loveliness for Aërie's sake,
      So she in beauty moving
        Rides at his hand
        Across his land,
      Beloved as well as loving.




  




    THE ENGLISHMAN


    I met a sailor in the woods,
      A silver ring wore he,
    His hair hung black, his eyes shone blue,
      And thus he said to me:--

    'What country, say, of this round earth,
      What shore of what salt sea,
    Be this, my son, I wander in,
      And looks so strange to me?'

    Says I, 'O foreign sailorman,
      In England now you be,
    This is her wood, and this her sky,
      And that her roaring sea.'

    He lifts his voice yet louder,
      'What smell be this,' says he,
    'My nose on the sharp morning air
      Snuffs up so greedily?'

    Says I, 'It is wild roses
      Do smell so winsomely,
    And winy briar too,' says I,
      'That in these thickets be.'

    'And oh!' says he, 'what leetle bird
      Is singing in yon high tree,
    So every shrill and long-drawn note
      Like bubbles breaks in me?'

    Says I, 'It is the mavis
      That perches in the tree,
    And sings so shrill, and sings so sweet,
      When dawn comes up the sea.'

    At which he fell a-musing,
      And fixed his eye on me,
    As one alone 'twixt light and dark
      A spirit thinks to see

    'England!' he whispers soft and harsh,
      'England!' repeated he,
    'And briar, and rose, and mavis,
      A-singing in yon high tree.

    'Ye speak me true, my leetle son,
      So--so, it came to me,
    A-drifting landwards on a spar,
      And grey dawn on the sea.

    'Ay, ay, I could not be mistook;
      I knew them leafy trees,
    I knew that land so witcherie sweet,
      And that old noise of seas.

    'Though here I've sailed a score of years,
      And heard 'em, dream or wake,
    Lap small and hollow 'gainst my cheek,
      On sand and coral break;

    '"Yet now, my leetle son," says I,
      A-drifting on the wave,
    "That land I see so safe and green
      Is England, I believe.

    '"And that there wood is English wood,
      And this here cruel sea,
    The selfsame old blue ocean
      Years gone remembers me,

    "A-sitting with my bread and butter
      Down ahind yon chitterin' mill;
    And this same Marinere"--(that's me),
      "Is that same leetle Will!--

    "That very same wee leetle Will
      Eating his bread and butter there,
    A-looking on the broad blue sea
      Betwixt his yaller hair!"

    'And here be I, my son, throwed up
      Like corpses from the sea,
    Ships, stars, winds, tempests, pirates past,
      Yet leetle Will I be!'

    He said no more, that sailorman,
      But in a reverie
    Stared like the figure of a ship
      With painted eyes to sea.




    THE PHANTOM


    'Upstairs in the large closet, child,
      This side the blue-room door,
    Is an old Bible, bound in leather,
      Standing upon the floor;

    'Go with this taper, bring it me;
      Carry it on your arm;
    It is the book on many a sea
      Hath stilled the waves' alarm.'

    Late the hour, dark the night,
      The house is solitary,
    Feeble is a taper's light
      To light poor Ann to see.

    Her eyes are yet with visions bright
      Of sylph and river, flower and fay,
    Now through a narrow corridor
      She takes her lonely way.

    Vast shadows on the heedless walls
      Gigantic loom, stoop low:
    Each little hasty footfall calls
      Hollowly to and fro.

    In the dim solitude her heart
      Remembers tearlessly
    White winters when her mother was
      Her loving company.

    Now in the dark clear glass she sees
      A taper mocking hers,--
    A phantom face of light blue eyes,
      Reflecting phantom fears.

    Around her loom the vacant rooms,
      Wind the upward stairs,
    She climbs on into a loneliness
      Only her taper shares.

    Her grandmother is deaf with age;
      A garden of moonless trees
    Would answer not though she should cry
      In anguish on her knees.

    So that she scarcely heeds--so fast
      Her pent-up heart doth beat--
    When, faint along the corridor,
      Falleth the sound of feet:--

    Sounds lighter than silk slippers make
      Upon a ballroom floor, when sweet
    Violin and 'cello wake
      Music for twirling feet.

    O! in an old unfriendly house,
      What shapes may not conceal
    Their faces in the open day,
      At night abroad to steal?

    Even her taper seems with fear
      To languish small and blue;
    Far in the woods the winter wind
      Runs whistling through.

    A dreadful cold plucks at each hair,
      Her mouth is stretched to cry,
    But sudden, with a gush of joy,
      It narrows to a sigh.

    It is a wilding child which comes
      Swift through the corridor,
    Singing an old forgotten song,
      This ancient burden bore:--

    'Thorn, thorn, I wis,
    And roses twain,
      A red rose and a white,
    Stoop in the blossom, bee, and kiss
      A lonely child good-night.

    'Swim fish, sing bird,
    And sigh again,
      I that am lost am lone,
    Bee in the blossom never stirred
      Locks hid beneath a stone!'--

    Her eye was of the azure fire
      That hovers in wintry flame;
    Her raiment wild and yellow as furze
      That spouteth out the same;

    And in her hand she bore no flower,
      But on her head a wreath
    Of faded flag-flowers that did yet
      Smell sweetly after death.

    Clear was the light of loveliness
      That lit her face like rain;
    And sad the mouth that uttered
      Her immemorial strain.

        *     *     *     *

    Gloomy with night the corridor
      Is now that she is gone,
    Albeit this solitary child
      No longer seems alone.

    Fast though her taper dwindles down,
      Heavy and thick the tome,
    A beauty beyond fear to dim
      Haunts now her alien home.

    Ghosts in the world malignant, grim,
      Vex many a wood, and glen,
    And house, and pool,--the unquiet ghosts
      Of dead and restless men.

    But in her grannie's house this spirit--
      A child as lone as she--
    Pining for love not found on earth,
      Ann dreams again to see.

    Seated upon her tapestry-stool,
      Her fairy-book laid by,
    She gazes in the fire, knowing
      She hath sweet company.




    THE MILLER AND HIS SON


    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'

    'The Miller went a-walking
      All in the forest high,
    He sees three doves a-flitting
      Against the dark blue sky:

    'Says he, "My son, now follow
      These doves so white and free,
    That cry above the forest,
      And surely cry to thee."

    "I go, my dearest Father,
      But O! I sadly fear,
    These doves so white will lead me far,
      But never bring me near."

    'He kisses the Miller,
      He cries, "Awhoop to ye!"
    And straightway through the forest
      Follows the wood-doves three.

    'There came a sound of weeping
      To the Miller in his Mill;
    Red roses in a thicket
      Bloomed over near his wheel;

    'Three stars shone wild and brightly
      Above the forest dim:
    But never his dearest son
      Returns again to him.

    'The cuckoo shall call "Cuckoo!"
      In vain along the vale,
    The linnet, and the blackbird,
      The mournful nightingale;

    'The Miller hears and sees not,
      A-thinking of his son;
    His toppling wheel is silent;
      His grinding done.

    '"Ye doves so white," he weepeth,
      "Ye roses on the tree,
    Ye stars that shine so brightly,
      Ye shine in vain for me!"

    'I bade him follow, follow,
      He said, "O Father dear,
    These doves so white will lead me far
      But never bring me near!"'

    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'




    DOWN-ADOWN-DERRY


    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon,
    Gathering daisies
    In the meadows of Doone,
    Sees a white fairy
    Skip buxom and free
    Where the waters go brawling
    In rills to the sea;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Through the green grasses
    Runs fleetly and soon,
    And lo! on a lily
    She sees one recline
    Whose eyes in her wee face
    Like the water-sparks shine;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    And shrill was her tune:--
    'Come to my water-house,
    Annie Maroon,
    Come in your pink gown,
    Your curls on your head,
    To wear the white samite
    And rubies instead';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,
    Lean fish of the sea,
    Bring lanthorns for feasting
    The gay Faërie;
    And it's dancing on sand 'tis
    That's smoother than wool;--
    Foam-fruit and wild honey
    To pleasure you full';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Looked large on the fairy
    Curled wan as the moon;
    And all the grey ripples
    To the Mill racing by,
    With harps and with timbrels
    Did ringing reply;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,'
    Sang the Fairy of Doone,
    Piercing the heart of
    Sweet Annie Maroon;
    And lo! when like roses
    The clouds of the sun
    Faded at dusk, gone
    Was Annie Maroon;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    The daisies are few;
    Frost twinkles powd'ry
    In haunts of the dew;
    Only the robin
    Perched on a white thorn,
    Can comfort the heart of
    A father forlorn;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    There's snow in the air;
    Ice where the lily
    Bloomed waxen and fair;
    He may call o'er the water,
    Cry--cry through the Mill,
    But Annie Maroon, alas!
    Answer ne'er will;
        Singing down-adown-derry.




    THE SUPPER


    A wolf he pricks with eyes of fire
    Across the night's o'ercrusted snows,
        Seeking his prey,
        He pads his way
    Where Jane benighted goes,
      Where Jane benighted goes.

    He curdles the bleak air with ire,
    Ruffling his hoary raiment through,
        And lo! he sees
        Beneath the trees
    Where Jane's light footsteps go,
      Where Jane's light footsteps go.

    No hound peals thus in wicked joy,
    He snaps his muzzle in the snows,
        His five-clawed feet
        Do scamper fleet
    Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows,
      Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows.

    Now his greed's green doth gaze unseen
    On a pure face of wilding rose,
        Her amber eyes
        In fear's surprise
    Watch largely as she goes,
      Watch largely as she goes.

    Salt wells his hunger in his jaws,
    His lust it revels to and fro,
        Yet small beneath
        A soft voice saith,
    'Jane shall in safety go,
      Jane shall in safety go.'

    He lurched as if a fiery lash
    Had scourged his hide, and through and through,
        His furious eyes
        O'erscanned the skies,
    But nearer dared not go,
      But nearer dared not go.

    He reared like wild Bucephalus,
    His fangs like spears in him uprose,
        Ev'n to the town
        Jane's flitting gown
    He grins on as she goes,
      He grins on as she goes.

    In fierce lament he howls amain,
    He scampers, marvelling in his throes
        What brought him there
        To sup on air,
    While Jane unarmèd goes,
      While Jane unarmèd goes.




    THE ISLE OF LONE


    Three dwarfs there were which lived on an isle,
      And the name of the isle was Lone,
    And the names of the dwarfs were Alliolyle,
      Lallerie, Muziomone.

    Alliolyle was green of een,
      Lallerie light of locks,
    Muziomone was mild of mien,
      As ewes in April flocks.

    Their house was small and sweet of the sea,
      And pale as the Malmsey wine;
    Their bowls were three, and their beds were three,
      And their nightcaps white were nine.

    Their beds were of the holly-wood,
      Their combs of the tortoiseshell,
    Their mirrors clear as wintry flood,
      Frozen dark and snell.

    So each would lie on his plumpy pillow,
      The moon for company,
    And hear the parrot scream to the billow,
      And the billow roar reply.--

    Sulphur parrots, and parrots red,
      Scarlet, and flame, and green;
    And five-foot apes that jargonèd
      In feathery-tufted treen.

    And oh, or ever the dawning shed
      On dreams a narrow flame,
    Three gaping dwarfs gat out of bed
      And gazed upon the same.

    At dawn they fished, at noon they snared
      Young foxes in the dells,
    At even on dew-berries they fared,
      And blew in their twisted shells.

    Dark was the sea they gambolled in,
      And thick with silver fish,
    Dark as green glass blown clear and thin
      To be a monarch's dish.

    They sate to sup in a jasmine bower,
      Lit pale with flies of fire,
    Their bowls the hue of the iris-flower,
      And lemon their attire.

    Sweet wine in little cups they sipped,
      And golden honeycomb
    Into their bowls of cream they dipped,
      Whipt light and white as foam.

    Alliolyle, where the salt sea flows,
      Taught three old apes to sing,
    And there to the moon, like a full-blown rose,
      They capered in a ring.

    But down to the shore skipped Lallerie,
      His parrot on his thumb,
    And the twain they scritched in mockery,
      While the dancers go and come.

    So, alas! in the evening, rosy and still,
      Light-haired Lallerie
    Bitterly quarrelled with Alliolyle
      By the yellow-sanded sea.

    The rising moon swam sweet and large
      Before their furious eyes,
    And they rolled and rolled to the coral marge
      Where the surf for ever cries.

    Too late, too late, comes Muziomone:
      Clear in the clear green sea
    Alliolyle lies not alone,
      But clasped with Lallerie.

    He blows on his shell plaintive notes;
      Ape, parraquito, bee
    Flock where a shoe on the salt wave floats,--
      The shoe of Lallerie.

    He fetches nightcaps, one and nine,
      Grey apes he dowers three,
    His house as fair as the Malmsey wine
      Seems sad as cypress-tree.

    Three bowls he brims with honeycomb
      To feast the bumble bees,
    Saying, 'O bees, be this your home,
      For grief is on the seas!'

    He sate him lone in a coral grot,
      At the flowing of the tide;
    When ebbed the billow, there was not,
      Save coral, aught beside.

    So hairy apes in three white beds,
      And nightcaps, one and nine,
    On moonlit pillows lay three heads
      Bemused with dwarfish wine.

    A tomb of coral, the dirge of bee,
      The grey apes' guttural groan
    For Alliolyle, for Lallerie,
      For thee, O Muziomone!




    THE SLEEPING BEAUTY


    The scent of bramble sweets the air,
      Amid her folded sheets she lies,
    The gold of evening in her hair,
      The blue of morn shut in her eyes.

    How many a changing moon hath lit
      The unchanging roses of her face!
    Her mirror ever broods on it
      In silver stillness of the days.

    Oft flits the moth on filmy wings
      Into his solitary lair;
    Shrill evensong the cricket sings
      From some still shadow in her hair.

    In heat, in snow, in wind, in flood,
      She sleeps in lovely loneliness,
    Half folded like an April bud
      On winter-haunted trees.




    THE HORN


    Hark! is that a horn I hear,
      In cloudland winding sweet--
    And bell-like clash of bridle-rein,
      And silver-shod light feet?

    Is it the elfin laughter of
      Fairies riding faint and high,
    'Neath the branches of the moon,
      Straying through the starry sky?

    Is it in the globèd dew
      Such sweet melodies may fall?
    Wood and valley--all are still,
      Hushed the shepherd's call.

    Hark! is that a horn I hear
      In cloudland winding sweet?
    Or gloomy goblins marching out
      Their captain Puck to greet?




    CAPTAIN LEAN


    Out of the East a hurricane
      Swept down on Captain Lean--
    That mariner and gentleman
      Will ne'er again be seen.

    He sailed his ship against the foes
      Of his own country dear,
    But now in the trough of the billows
      An aimless course doth steer.

    Powder was violets to his nostril,
      Sweet the din of the fighting-line,
    Now he is flotsam on the seas,
      And his bones are bleached with brine.

    The stars move up along the sky,
      The moon she shines so bright,
    And in that solitude the foam
      Sparkles unearthly white.

    This is the tomb of Captain Lean,
      Would a straiter please his soul?
    I trow he sleeps in peace,
      Howsoever the billows roll!




    THE PORTRAIT OF A WARRIOR


    His brow is seamed with line and scar;
      His cheek is red and dark as wine;
    The fires as of a Northern star
      Beneath his cap of sable shine.

    His right hand, bared of leathern glove,
      Hangs open like an iron gin,
    You stoop to see his pulses move,
      To hear the blood sweep out and in.

    He looks some king, so solitary
      In earnest thought he seems to stand,
    As if across a lonely sea
      He gazed impatient of the land.

    Out of the noisy centuries
      The foolish and the fearful fade;
    Yet burn unquenched these warrior eyes,
      Time hath not dimmed nor death dismayed.




    HAUNTED


    From out the wood I watched them shine,--
      The windows of the haunted house,
    Now ruddy as enchanted wine,
      Now dim as flittermouse.

    There went a thin voice piping airs
      Along the grey and crooked walks,--
    A garden of thistledown and tares,
      Bright leaves, and giant stalks.

    The twilight rain shone at its gates,
      Where long-leaved grass in shadow grew;
    And black in silence to her mates
      A voiceless raven flew.

    Lichen and moss the lone stones greened,
      Green paths led lightly to its door,
    Keen from her lair the spider leaned,
      And dusk to darkness wore.

    Amidst the sedge a whisper ran,
      The West shut down a heavy eye,
    And like last tapers, few and wan,
      The watch-stars kindled in the sky.




    THE RAVEN'S TOMB


    'Build me my tomb,' the Raven said,
    'Within the dark yew-tree,
    So in the Autumn yewberries
    Sad lamps may burn for me.
    Summon the haunted beetle,
    From twilight bud and bloom,
    To drone a gloomy dirge for me
    At dusk above my tomb.
    Beseech ye too the glowworm
    To bear her cloudy flame,
    Where the small, flickering bats resort,
    Whistling in tears my name.
    Let the round dew a whisper make,
    Welling on twig and thorn;
    And only the grey cock at night
    Call through his silver horn.
    And you, dear sisters, don your black
    For ever and a day,
    To show how sweet a raven
    In his tomb is laid away.'




    THE CHRISTENING


    The bells chime clear,
    Soon will the sun behind the hills sink down;
    Come, little Ann, your baby brother dear
    Lies in his christening-gown.

    His godparents
    Are all across the fields stepped on before,
    And wait beneath the crumbling monuments,
    This side the old church door.

    Your mammie dear
    Leans frail and lovely on your daddie's arm;
    Watching her chick, 'twixt happiness and fear,
    Lest he should come to harm.

    All to be blest
    Full soon in the clear heavenly water, he
    Sleeps on unwitting of't, his little breast
    Heaving so tenderly.

    I carried you,
    My little Ann, long since on this same quest,
    And from the painted windows a pale hue
    Lit golden on your breast;

    And then you woke,
    Chill as the holy water trickled down,
    And, weeping, cast the window a strange look,
    Half smile, half infant frown.

    I scarce could hear
    The larks a-singing in the green meadows,
    'Twas summertide, and budding far and near
    The hedges thick with rose.

    And now you're grown
    A little girl, and this same helpless mite
    Is come like such another bud half-blown,
    Out of the wintry night.

    Time flies, time flies!
    And yet, bless me! 'tis little changed am I;
    May Jesu keep from tears those infant eyes,
    Be love their lullaby!




    THE MOTHER BIRD


    Through the green twilight of a hedge
    I peered, with cheek on the cool leaves pressed,
    And spied a bird upon a nest:
    Two eyes she had beseeching me
    Meekly and brave, and her brown breast
    Throbb'd hot and quick above her heart;
    And then she oped her dagger bill,--
    'Twas not a chirp, as sparrows pipe
    At break of day; 'twas not a trill,
    As falters through the quiet even;
    But one sharp solitary note,
    One desperate, fierce, and vivid cry
    Of valiant tears, and hopeless joy,
    One passionate note of victory:
    Off, like a fool afraid, I sneaked,
    Smiling the smile the fool smiles best,
    At the mother bird in the secret hedge
    Patient upon her lonely nest.




    THE CHILD IN THE STORY GOES TO BED


    I prythee, Nurse, come smooth my hair,
      And prythee, Nurse, unloose my shoe,
    And trimly turn my silken sheet
      Upon my quilt of gentle blue.

    My pillow sweet of lavender
      Smooth with an amiable hand,
    And may the dark pass peacefully by
      As in the hour-glass droops the sand.

    Prepare my cornered manchet sweet,
      And in my little crystal cup
    Pour out the blithe and flowering mead
      That forthwith I may sup.

    Withdraw my curtains from the night,
      And let the crispèd crescent shine
    Upon my eyelids while I sleep,
      And soothe me with her beams benign.

    From far-away there streams the singing
      Of the mellifluent nightingale,--
    Surely if goblins hear her lay,
      They shall not o'er my peace prevail.

    Now quench my silver lamp, prythee,
      And bid the harpers harp that tune
    Fairies which haunt the meadowlands
      Sing clearly to the stars of June.

    And bid them play, though I in dreams
      No longer heed their pining strains,
    For I would not to silence wake
      When slumber o'er my senses wanes.

    You Angels bright who me defend,
      Enshadow me with curvèd wing,
    And keep me in the darksome night
      Till dawn another day do bring.




    THE CHILD IN THE STORY AWAKES


    The light of dawn rose on my dreams,
      And from afar I seemed to hear
    In sleep the mellow blackbird call
      Hollow and sweet and clear.

    I prythee, Nurse, my casement open,
      Wildly the garden peals with singing,
    And hooting through the dewy pines
      The goblins all are winging.

    O listen the droning of the bees,
      That in the roses take delight!
    And see a cloud stays in the blue
      Like an angel still and bright.

    The gentle sky is spread like silk,
      And, Nurse, the moon doth languish there,
    As if it were a perfect jewel
      In the morning's soft-spun hair.

    The greyness of the distant hills
      Is silvered in the lucid East,
    See, now the sheeny-plumèd cock
      Wags haughtily his crest.

    'O come you out, O come you out,
      Lily, and lavender, and lime;
    The kingcup swings his golden bell,
      And plumpy cherries drum the time.

    'O come you out, O come you out!
      Roses, and dew, and mignonette,
    The sun is in the steep blue sky,
      Sweetly the morning star is set.'




    THE LAMPLIGHTER


    When the light of day declineth,
    And a swift angel through the sky
    Kindleth God's tapers clear,
    With ashen staff the lamplighter
    Passeth along the darkling streets
    To light our earthly lamps;

    Lest, prowling in the darkness,
    The thief should haunt with quiet tread,
    Or men on evil errands set;
    Or wayfarers be benighted;
    Or neighbours bent from house to house
    Should need a guiding torch.

    He is like a needlewoman
    Who deftly on a sable hem
    Stitches in gleaming jewels;
    Or, haply, he is like a hero,
    Whose bright deeds on the long journey
    Are beacons on our way.

    And when in the East cometh morning,
    And the broad splendour of the sun,
    Then, with the tune of little birds
    Ringing on high, the lamplighter
    Passeth by each quiet house,
    And putteth out the lamps.




    CECIL


    Ye little elves, who haunt sweet dells,
    Where flowers with the dew commune,
    I pray you hush the child, Cecil,
        With windlike song.

    O little elves, so white she lieth,
    Each eyelid gentler than the flow'r
    Of the bramble, and her fleecy hair
        Like smoke of gold.

    O little elves, her hands and feet
    The angels muse upon, and God
    Hath shut a glimpse of Paradise
        In each blue eye.

    O little elves, her tiny body
    Like a white flake of snow it is,
    Drooping upon the pale green hood
        Of the chill snowdrop.

    O little elves, with elderflower,
    And pimpernel, and the white hawthorn,
    Sprinkle the journey of her dreams:
        And, little elves,

    Call to her magically sweet,
    Lest of her very tenderness
    She do forsake this rough brown earth
        And return to us no more.




    I MET AT EVE


    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep
      Lovely in a lonely place.

    His garb was grey of lavender,
    About his brows a poppy-wreath
    Burned like dim coals, and everywhere
      The air was sweeter for his breath.

    His twilight feet no sandals wore,
    His eyes shone faint in their own flame,
    Fair moths that gloomed his steps before
      Seemed letters of his lovely name.

    His house is in the mountain ways,
    A phantom house of misty walls,
    Whose golden flocks at evening graze,
      And witch the moon with muffled calls.

    Upwelling from his shadowy springs
    Sweet waters shake a trembling sound,
    There flit the hoot-owl's silent wings,
      There hath his web the silkworm wound.

    Dark in his pools clear visions lurk,
    And rosy, as with morning buds,
    Along his dales of broom and birk
      Dreams haunt his solitary woods.

    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep,
      Lovely in a lonely place.




    LULLABY


    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    The singing mouse sings plaintively,
    The sweet night-bird in the chesnut-tree--
    They sing together, bird and mouse,
    In starlight, in darkness, lonely, sweet,
    The wild notes and the faint notes meet--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Amid the lilies floats the moth,
    The mole along his galleries goeth
    In the dark earth; the summer moon
    Looks like a shepherd through the pane
    Seeking his feeble lamb again--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Time comes to keep night-watch with thee
    Nodding with roses; and the sea
    Saith 'Peace! Peace!' amid his foam
    White as thy night-clothes; 'O be still!'
    The wind cries up the whisp'ring hill--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!




    ENVOY


    There clung three roses to a stem,
    Did all their hues of summer don,
    But came a wind and troubled them,
      And all were gone.

    I heard three bells in unison
    Clap out some transient heart's delight,
    Time and the hour brought silence on
      And the dark night.

    Doth not Orion even set!
    O love, love, prove true alone,
    Till youthful hearts ev'n love forget,
      Then, child, begone!





 A Serious Question


 

 A kitten went a-walking
   One morning in July,
 And idly fell a-talking
   With a great big butterfly.

 The kitten's tone was airy,
   The butterfly would scoff;
 When there came along a fairy
   Who whisked his wings right off.

 And then--for it is written
   Fairies can do such things--
 Upon the startled kitten
   She stuck the yellow wings.

 

 The kitten felt a quiver,
   She rose into the air,
 Then flew down to the river
   To view her image there.

 With fear her heart was smitten,
   And she began to cry,
 "Am I a butter-kitten?
   Or just a kitten-fly?"




 Two Old Kings

 Oh! the King of Kanoodledum
 And the King of Kanoodledee,
   They went to sea
   In a jigamaree--
 A full-rigged jigamaree.

 And one king couldn't steer,
 And the other, no more could he;
   So they both upset
   And they both got wet,
 As wet as wet could be.

 

 And one king couldn't swim
 And the other, he couldn't, too;
   So they had to float,
   While their empty boat
 Danced away o'er the sea so blue.

 Then the King of Kanoodledum
 He turned a trifle pale,
   And so did he
   Of Kanoodledee,
 But they saw a passing sail!

 And one king screamed like fun
 And the other king screeched like mad,
   And a boat was lowered
   And took them aboard;
 And, my! but those kings were glad!

 




 

 A Day Dream


 Polly's patchwork--oh, dear me!--
 Truly is a sight to see.
 Rumpled, crumpled, soiled, and frayed--
 Will the quilt be ever made?
 See the stitches yawning wide--
 Can it be that Polly _tried_?

 Some are right and some are wrong,
 Some too short and some too long,
 Some too loose and some too tight;
 Grimy smudges on the white,
 And a tiny spot of red,
 Where poor Polly's finger bled.
 Strange such pretty, dainty blocks--
 Bits of Polly's summer frocks--
 Should have proved so hard to sew,
 And the cause of so much woe!

 One day it was _very_ hot,
 And the thread got in a knot,
 Drew the seam up in a heap--
 Polly calmly fell asleep.
 Then she had a lovely dream;
 Straight and even was the seam,
 Pure and spotless was the white;
 All the blocks were finished quite--
 Each joined to another one.
 Lo, behold! the quilt was done,--
 Lined and quilted,--and it seemed
 To cover Polly as she dreamed!




 Our Club


 We're going to have the mostest fun!
   It's going to be a club;
 And no one can belong to it
   But Dot and me and Bub.

 

 We thought we'd have a Reading Club,
   But couldn't 'cause, you see,
 Not one of us knows how to read--
   Not Dot nor Bub nor me.

 And then we said a Sewing Club,
   But thought we'd better not;
 'Cause none of us knows how to sew--
   Not me nor Bub nor Dot.

 And so it's just a Playing Club,
   We play till time for tea;
 And, oh, we have the bestest times!
   Just Dot and Bub and me.




 Puzzled


 There lived in ancient Scribbletown a wise old writer-man,
 Whose name was Homer Cicero Demosthenes McCann.
 He'd written treatises and themes till, "For a change," he said,
 "I think I'll write a children's book before I go to bed."

 

 He pulled down all his musty tomes in Latin and in Greek;
 Consulted cyclopædias and manuscripts antique,
 Essays in Anthropology, studies in counterpoise--
 "For these," he said, "are useful lore for little girls and boys."

 He scribbled hard, and scribbled fast, he burned the midnight oil,
 And when he reached "The End" he felt rewarded for his toil;
 He said, "This charming Children's Book is greatly to my credit."
 And now he's sorely puzzled that no child has ever read it.




 

 An Intercepted Valentine


 Little Bo-Peep, will you be mine?
 I want you for my Valentine.
 You are my choice of all the girls,
 With your blushing cheeks and your fluttering curls,
 With your ribbons gay and your kirtle neat,
 None other is so fair and sweet.
 Little Bo-Peep, let's run away,
 And marry each other on Midsummer Day;
 And ever to you I'll be fond and true,

            Your faithful Valentine,
                    LITTLE BOY BLUE.




 A Long-Felt Want




 One day wee Willie and his dog
   Sprawled on the nursery floor.
 He had a florist's catalogue,
   And turned the pages o'er,

 Till all at once he gave a spring,
   "Hurrah!" he cried with joy;
 "Mamma, here's just the very thing
   To give your little boy!

 "For when we fellows go to school,
   We lose our things, you know;
 And in that little vestibule
   They do get mixed up so.

 "And as you often say you can't
   Take care of 'em for me,
 Why don't you buy a _rubber plant_,
   And an _umbrella tree_?"




 The Musical Carp


 There once was a corpulent carp
 Who wanted to play on a harp,
     But to his chagrin
     So short was his fin
 That he couldn't reach up to C sharp.

 




 The Intelligent Hen


 

 'Twas long ago,--a year or so,--
   In a barnyard by the sea,
 That an old hen lived whom you may know
   By the name of Fiddle-de-dee.
 She scratched around in the sand all day,
   For a lively old hen was she.

 And then do you know, it happened this way
   In that barnyard by the sea;
 A great wise owl came down one day,
   And hooted at Fiddle-de-dee,
   Just hooted at Fiddle-de-dee.
 And he cried, "Hi! Hi! old hen, I say!
   You're provincial, it seems to me!"

 "Why, what do you mean?" cried the old red hen,
   As mad as hops was she.
 "Oh, I've been 'round among great men,
   In the world where the great men be.
 And none of them scratch with their claws like you,
   They write with a quill like me."

 Now very few people could get ahead
   Of that old hen, Fiddle-de-dee.
 She went and hunted the posy-bed,
   And returned in triumphant glee.
 And ever since then, that little red hen,
 She writes with a jonquil pen, quil pen,
   She writes with a jonquil pen.

 




 

 The Happy Hyena


 There once was a happy Hyena
 Who played on an old concertina.
     He dressed very well,
     And in his lapel
 He carelessly stuck a verbena.




 

 A Great Lady


 This is the Queen of Nonsense Land,
 She wears her bonnet on her hand;
 She carpets her ceilings and frescos her floors,
 She eats on her windows and sleeps on her doors.
 Oh, ho! Oh, ho! to think there could be
 A lady so silly-down-dilly as she!

 She goes for a walk on an ocean wave,
 She fishes for cats in a coral cave;
 She drinks from an empty glass of milk,
 And lines her potato trees with silk.
 I'm sure that fornever and never was seen
 So foolish a thing as the Nonsense Queen!

 She ordered a wig for a blue bottle fly,
 And she wrote a note to a pumpkin pie;
 She makes all the oysters wear emerald rings,
 And does dozens of other nonsensible things.
 Oh! the scatterbrained, shatterbrained lady so grand,
 Her Royal Skyhighness of Nonsense Land!




 Opulent Ollie


 One Saturday opulent Ollie
 Thought he'd go for a ride on the trolley;
   But his pennies were few,--
   He only had two,--
 So he went and made mud-pies with Polly.

 




 The Two Bears


 Prince Curlilocks remarked one day
   To Princess Dimplecheek,
 "I haven't had a real good play
   For more than 'most a week."

 Said Princess Dimplecheek, "My dear,
   Your majesty forgets--
 This morning we played grenadier
   With grandpa's epaulets.

 "And yesterday we sailed to Spain--
   We both were pirates bold,
 And braved the wild and raging main
   To seek for hidden gold."

 "True," said the prince; "I mind me well--
   Right hardily we fought,
 And stormed a massive citadel
   To gain the prize we sought.

 "But if your ladyship agrees,
   Methinks we'll go upstairs
 And build a waste of arctic seas,
   And we'll be polar bears."

 "Yes, if you'll promise not to bite,"
   Fair Dimplecheek replied,
 Already half-way up the flight,
   His highness by her side.

 "Princess, on that far window-seat,
   Go, sit thee down and wait,
 While I ask nursie for a sheet,
   Or maybe six or eight."

 A pile of sheets his highness brought.
   "Dear princess, pray take these;
 Although our path with danger's fraught,
   We'll reach the polar seas."

 Two furry rugs his lordship bore,
   Two pairs of mittens white;
 He threw them on the nursery floor
   And shouted with delight.

 He spread those sheets--the funny boy--
   O'er table, floor, and chair.
 "Princess," said he, "don't you enjoy
   This frosty, bracing air?

 "These snowy sheets are fields of ice,
   This is an iceberg grim."
 "Yes, dear, I think it's very nice,"
   She said, and smiled at him.

 And then they donned the rugs of fur,
   The mittens, too, they wore;
 And Curlilocks remarked to her,
   "Now you must roar and roar."

 

 Dimplecheek looked out from the cowl
   Formed by her furry rug.
 "I'm 'fraid of bears that only growl--
   I like the kind that hug."



 




 The 4.04 Train


 "There's a train at 4.04," said Miss Jenny;
 "Four tickets I'll take. Have you any?"
     Said the man at the door:
     "Not four for 4.04,
 For four for 4.04 is too many."




 

 A Valuable Gift


 Old Father Time, one day
 In his study, so they say,
   Was indulging in a surreptitious nap,
 When from his drowsy dreams
 He was wakened, as it seems,
   By a timid but persistent little rap.

 He yawned and rubbed his eyes
 In indolent surprise,
   Then slowly he arose from where he sat;
 He opened wide his door,
 And nearly tumbled o'er
   The figure that stood waiting on the mat.

 A tiny little dog,
 With excitement all agog,
   And angry eyes that seemed to flash and glower.
 His manner was polite,
 But he said, "I claim my right!
   And I've called, sir, to demand of you my hour."

 "Your what?" the old man said,
 As he shook his puzzled head;
   And the pertinacious puppy spoke with force:
 "Well, sir, they often say,
 'Every dog must have his day,'
   So a puppy ought to have an hour, of course!"

 

 The old man shook with glee,
 But he said obligingly,
   "The dog days are all gone, I grieve to say;
 But since you've come so far,
 And so mannerly you are,
   I'll give you just an hour--to get away."




 

 The Grandiloquent Goat


 A very grandiloquent Goat
 Sat down to a gay table d'hôte;
   He ate all the corks,
   The knives and the forks,
 Remarking: "On these things I dote."

 Then, before his repast he began,
 While pausing the menu to scan,
   He said: "Corn, if you please,
   And tomatoes and pease,
 I'd like to have served in the can."




 How the Cat was Belled


 A fable told by La Fontaine,
   Two centuries or more ago,
 Describes some rats who would arraign
   A cat, their direst foe,
 Who killed so many rats
   And caused the deepest woe,
 This Catiline of cats.

 The poor rats were at their wits' end
 Their homes and families to defend;
   And as a last resort
   They took the case to court.

 It seems they called a caucus wise
 Of rats of every age and size,
   And then their dean,
   With sapient mien,
 A very Solon of a rat,
 Said it was best to bell the cat.

 The quaint old tale goes on to tell
 How this plan would have worked quite well,
   But, somehow, flaws
   Appeared, because
 No one would hang the bell.

 Though there the ancient fable ends,
 Later report the tale extends,
   No longer is the truth withheld;
     Developments appear,
     And so you have it here.
       For the first time
       Set down in rhyme
   Just how that cat was belled.

 The council, as 'twas getting late,
 Was just about to separate,
   When suddenly a rat arose
   Who said he could a plan propose
     Which would, he thought, succeed
     And meet their urgent need.

 Now as this rat was very small,
 And had no dignity at all,
   Although his plan was well advised,
   We really need not be surprised
 That all the rats of riper years
 Expressed the gravest doubts and fears;
     Till suddenly
     He said, said he,
 "If you will leave it all to me,
       I will avow
       Three days from now
 That you shall all be free."
 The solemn council then adjourned.
 Each rat to home and fireside turned;
   But each shook his wise head
   And to his neighbor said:
 "It is a dangerous job, in truth,
 Though it seems naught to headstrong youth."

 Now young Sir Rat we next behold,
 With manner brave and visage bold,
     Go marching down
     To London town,
 Where wondrous things are sold.
     We see him stop
     At a large shop,
 And with the bland clerk's courteous aid
 This was the purchase that he made:
 A bicycle of finest make,
 With modern gear and patent brake,
 Pedometer, pneumatic tire,
 And spokes that looked like silver wire,
     A lantern bright
     To shine at night,
 Enamel finish, nickel plate,
 And all improvements up to date.
 Said sly Sir Rat: "It suits me well,
 Especially that sweet-toned _bell_."

 

 The shades of night were falling fast
 When Sir Rat turned toward home at last.
 The neighbors watched him as he passed
 And said: "What is that queer-shaped thing?
 Surely that can't be made to ring."
   Sir Rat went on, nor stayed
   To hear the jests they made;
 And just outside the old cat's gate
 He stopped and boldly braved his fate,
   For if that cat
   Should smell a rat
 How quickly he'd come out and catch him,
 And with what gusto he'd despatch him!
 Sir Rat, against the picket-fence
 Leaned the machine, then hurried hence,
   And hid himself with glee,
   And waited breathlessly
     To see what that
     Cantankerous cat
 Would say, when in the twilight dim
 He saw that brightly shining rim.

   Sir Rat, though hidden quite,
   And safely out of sight,
 Had scarcely time to wink his eye,
 When Mr. Cat came sauntering by.

     "Ha! Ha!" said he,
     "What's this I see,
 A bicycle! and just my size!
 Well, this, indeed, is a surprise!
     I'll confiscate
     This treasure great;
 How quickly I'll fly o'er the ground
 When I pursue my hunting round!"

 He mounted it with eager haste,
 It suited well his sporting taste;
   He guided it at will,
   And used the brake with skill,
 He grasped the handle-bars, and then--
 You see it was his custom when
 He did a thing, to do it well--
 Of course he used the clear-toned bell!

 

 Victory now! the deed is done!
 No longer at the set of sun
 The rats fly shrieking to their nests,
 They saunter round with merry jests
   And ne'er a thought of fear,
     Knowing full well
     They'll hear the bell
   When Mr. Cat draws near.

 

 And young Sir Rat who did the deed,
 Whose cleverness relieved their need,
   His wondrous enterprise
   Was lauded to the skies.
 And everywhere his name
 Was hailed with shouts of fame.

 In difficulties, oft we see
 Modern improvements frequently
 Will prove a happy remedy.




 The Rhyme of Triangular Tommy


 

 Triangular Tommy, one morning in May,
 Went out for a walk on the public highway.
     Just here I will say,
     'Twas a bright sunny day,
 And the sky it was blue, and the grass it was green,
 The same sky and grass that you've all of you seen;
 And the birds in the trees sang their usual song,
 And Triangular Tommy went trudging along.

     But I can tell you
     He cared naught for the view.
 He did just what small boys of his age always do:
     He shouted out "Scat!"
     At a wandering cat,
 And he picked a big daisy to stick in his hat;
     The clovers he topped,
     And the toadstools he cropped,
 And sometimes he scuffled and sometimes he hopped.

 

 He took an old stick and poked at a worm,
 And merrily chuckled to see the thing squirm;
 When he chanced to look up, and in gorgeous array
 Triangular Tilly was coming his way.
 Triangular Tom straightened up in a jiff,
 And put on his best manner--exceedingly stiff;
 And as far as his angular shape would allow
 Triangular Tom made a beautiful bow.

 

 

 

 Triangular Tilly went smilingly by,
 With a glance that was friendly, but just a bit shy.
 And Tom so admired her that after she passed,
 A backward look over his shoulder he cast.
 And he said, "Though I think many girls are but silly,
 I really admire that Triangular Tilly."

 

 But soon all such thoughts were put out of his head,
 For who should come by but Triangular Ted,
 The very boy Tom had been wishing to see!
 "Hello!" said Triangular Tommy, said he.
 "Hello!" said Triangular Ted, and away
 Those two children scooted to frolic and play.
     And they had, on the green,
     Where 'twas all dry and clean,
 The best game of leap-frog that ever was seen.
 Triangular Tom beat down this way, you know,
 And Triangular Ted stood beside him, just so,
     When one, two, three--go!
     With  the  greatest gusto,
 Ted flew over Tom in a manner not slow.

 

 

 They played hide-and-seek, they played marbles and tag,
 They played they were soldiers, and each waved a flag;
     Till at last they confessed,
     They wanted to rest;
 So they sat down and chatted with laughter and jest;

 

 When Schoolmaster Jones they suddenly spied,
 Come clumping along with his pedagogue stride,
 As usual, with manner quite preoccupied;
     With his hat on one side,
     And his shoe-lace untied--
 A surly old fellow, it can't be denied;
     And each wicked boy
     Thought that he would enjoy
 An occasion the thoughtful old man to annoy,
 And all of his wise calculations destroy.
     So they thought they'd employ
     A means known to each boy.
 And across the wide pavement they fastened a twine
 Exceedingly strong but exceedingly fine;
 And Triangular Tommy laughed out in his glee,
 To think how upset the old master would be!

 

 Although very wicked, their mischievous scheme
 Was a perfect success; and with a loud scream,
     A horrible clash,
     A thump and a smash,
 Old Schoolmaster Jones came down with a crash.
 His hat rolled away, and his spectacles broke,
 And those dreadful boys thought it a howling good joke.
 And they just doubled up in immoderate glee,
 Saying, "Look at the Schoolmaster!
     Tee-hee! tee-hee!"

 

 

     Tom gave a guffaw,
     And Ted roared a "haw-haw";
 But soon their diversion was turned into awe,
 For old Schoolmaster Jones was angry, they saw.

 

 

     Triangular Ted
     Turned swiftly and fled,
 And far down the street like a reindeer he sped,
 Leaving Tommy to face the old gentleman's rage,
 Who quickly jumped up,--he was brisk for his age,--
 And with just indignation portrayed on his face,
 To Triangular Tommy he quickly gave chase.

 

     And hearing his squeals
     And his frantic appeals,
 Triangular Tommy fast took to his heels.
 Now Tommy was agile and Tommy was spry;
 He whizzed through the air--he just seemed to fly;
 He rushed madly on, until, dreadful to say!
 He came where the railroad was just in his way--
     And alas! and alack!
     He tripped on the track
 And then with a terrible, sudden ker-thwack!
 Triangular Tommy sprawled flat on his back--
 And the train came along with a crash, and a crack,
 A din, and a clatter, a clang, and a clack,
 A toot, and a boom, and a roar, and a hiss,
 And chopped him up all into pieces like this--
 If _you_ cut out papers just like them, why, then,
 If you try, you can put him together again.

 




 A Modern Invention


 Old Santa Claus is up-to-date,
   And hereafter, rumors say,
 He'll come with his pack of glittering toys,
 And visit the homes of girls and boys,
   In a new reindeerless sleigh.

 




 An April Joke


 

 Oh, it was a merry, gladsome day,
 When the April Fool met the Queen of May;
 She had roguish eyes and golden hair,
 And they were a mischief-making pair.
 They planned the funniest kind of a joke
 On the poor, long-suffering mortal folk;
 And a few mysterious words he said,
 His fool's cap close to her flower-crowned head.
 Then he laughed till he made his cap-bells ring,
 At the thought of the topsy-turvy Spring.
 "'Tis a fair exchange," he said, with a wink--
 "It is!" she said, and what do you think?
 The flowers that should bloom in the month of May
 Every one of them came on an April day!
 And they looked for April showers in vain,
 But all through May it did nothing but rain!







 The Funny Kittens


 

 Once there were some silly kittens,
 And they knitted woolly mittens
   To bestow upon the freezing Hottentots.
 But the Hottentots refused them,
 Saying that they never used them
   Unless crocheted of red with yellow spots.

 

 So the silly little kittens
 Took their blue and white striped mittens
   To a Bear who lived within a hollow tree;
 The Bear responded sadly,
 "I would wear your mittens gladly,
   But I fear they are too gay for such as me."

 

 Then the kittens, almost weeping,
 Came to where a Cow lay sleeping,
   And they woke her with this piteous request,
 "Won't you wear our mittens furry?"
 Said the Cow, "My dears, don't worry;
   I will put them on as soon as I am dressed."

 

 Then the Cow put on her bonnet
 With a wreath of roses on it,
   And a beautiful mantilla fringed with white;
 And she donned the pretty mittens,
 While the silly little kittens
   Clapped their paws in admiration at the sight.






 The Arch Armadillo


 

 There once was an arch Armadillo
 Who built him a hut 'neath a willow;
       He hadn't a bed
       So he rested his head
 On a young Porcupine for a pillow.




 

 The New Cup


 "I've a lovely new cup from Uncle John,"
   Said Dorothy; "only see--
 It has beautiful golden letters on,
   And they spell '_Remember Me_.'"

 "Oho!" laughed Fred. "Why, Dorothy dear,
   They put that on mugs and plates:
 _I_'ve studied jography 'most a year,
   And I know the names of the States.

 And when you see that anywhere,--
   At least, since this fuss with Spain,--
 It's the President who puts it there,
   And it means 'Remember the Maine'!"




 A Photographic Failure


 

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Saw a patient Periwinkle
 With a kodak, sitting idly by a rill.
     Feeling a desire awaken
     For to have his picture taken,
 Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle stood stock-still.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his brow begin to wrinkle,
 And his pose assume a sad and solemn style;
     But the Periwinkle trusted,
     As the focus he adjusted,
 That his customer would kindly try to smile.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his eyes begin to twinkle,
 And his mouth took on a broad and open grin;
     Said the Periwinkle, sadly,
     "If you stretch your jaw so madly,
 I fear perhaps that I shall tumble in."

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his hair begin to crinkle,
 As it rose up on his forehead in affright;
     Though his comrade spoke so mildly,
     Mr. Hinkle wondered wildly,
 How he could escape this dire and awful plight.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Said, "I fear it's going to sprinkle,
 And really for a storm I'm not prepared."
     Then without a further warning
     He politely said, "Good morning,"
 And the patient Periwinkle stood and stared.

 




 Christmas Gifts


 Ten Christmas presents standing in a line;
 Robert took the bicycle, then there were nine.
 Nine Christmas presents ranged in order straight;
 Bob took the steam engine, then there were eight.
 Eight Christmas presents--and one came from Devon;
 Robbie took the jackknife, then there were seven.
 Seven Christmas presents direct from St. Nick's;
 Bobby took the candy box, then there were six.
 Six Christmas presents, one of them alive;
 Rob took the puppy dog, then there were five.
 Five Christmas presents yet on the floor;
 Bobbin took the soldier cap, then there were four.
 Four Christmas presents underneath the tree;
 Bobbet took the writing desk, then there were three.
 Three Christmas presents still in full view;
 Robin took the checker board, then there were two.
 Two Christmas presents, promising fun,
 Bobbles took the picture book, then there was one.
 One Christmas present--and now the list is done;
 Bobbinet took the sled, and then there were none.
 And the same happy child received every toy,
 So many nicknames had one little boy.




 Young America


 

 Wee Willie sat a-thinking,
   And he shook his curly head.
 Around him on the nursery floor
   His treasures lay outspread.

 Firecrackers and torpedoes,
   Trumpet and flag and drum,
 Rockets and pinwheels and paper caps,
   For Fourth of July had come.

 "But it makes me sort o' sorry,"
   Wee Willie said with a sigh,
 "To think of those poor little English boys
   Without any Fourth of July."




 A Bicycle built for Two


 There was an ambitious young eel
 Who determined to ride on a wheel;
       But try as he might,
       He couldn't ride right,
 In spite of his ardor and zeal.

 If he sat on the saddle to ride
 His tail only pedalled one side;
       And I'm sure you'll admit
       That an eel _couldn't_ sit
 On a bicycle saddle astride.

 Or if he hung over the top,
 He could go, but he never could stop;
       For of course it is clear
       He had no way to steer,
 And under the wheel he would flop.

 His neighbor, observing the fun,
 Said, "I think that the thing can be done,
       If you'll listen to me,
       You'll quickly agree
 That two heads are better than one.

 "And this is my project, old chap,
 Around our two waists I will wrap
       This beautiful belt
       Of bottle-green felt
 And fasten it firm with a strap."

 

 This done, with a dignified mien
 The two squirmed up on the machine,
       And rode gayly away,
       Or at least, so they say,
 Who witnessed the wonderful scene.




 

 Dorothy's Opinion


 Mamma has bought a calendar,
   And every single page
 Has pictures on of little girls
   'Most just about my age.

 And when she bought it yesterday,
   Down at the big bazaar,
 She said, "What lovely little girls,
   How true to life they are."

 But I don't think they're true to life,
   And I'll just tell you why;
 They never have a rumpled frock
   Or ribbon bow awry.

 And though they play with cats and dogs,
   And rabbits and white mice,
 And sail their boats and fly their kites,
   They always look so nice.

 And I am sure no little girl
   That ever _I_ have seen,
 Could play with dogs or sail a boat
   And keep her frock so clean.

 




 The Roll of Roly Poly Roy


 

 Once on a time a lad I knew--
   His sister called him Bubby;
 His cheeks were red, his eyes were blue,
   And he was plump and chubby.
 Indeed, he was so stout a boy,
 Some called him Roly Poly Roy;
     They called him that
     For he was fat
 And very plump and chubby.

 

 He caused his father grief profound,
   And made his mother worry,
 Because he'd roll along the ground
   When he was in a hurry.
 For as he couldn't see his toes,
 He often tumbled on his nose;
     So, on the whole,
     'Twas best to roll
 When he was in a hurry.

 "Get up!" the people urged, but he
   Replied, "There's no use talking;
 I roll around because, you see,
   It's easier than walking."
 And though it looked extremely droll
 To see the lad lie down and roll,
     It was, forsooth,
     For that fat youth
 Far easier than walking.

 

 One day he thought he'd try to ride;
   Alas, he was so bulky,
 He tumbled off the other side,
   Which made him rather sulky.
 He heard his comrades jeer and scoff,
 Again he tried and tumbled off,
     And when he fell
     They'd shout and yell--
   Of course it made him sulky.

 Just out of town there was a place
   With rolling ground and hilly,
 And here Roy started for a race
   With Dick and Tom and Willy.
 You'll know of course before you're told
 That Roy just laid him down and rolled;
     And so, you see,
     He easily
   Beat Dick and Tom and Willy.

 That day two giants came along
   From Huncamunca Valley,
 Seeking some tenpins good and strong
   For their new bowling alley.
 They reached the hilly sort of place
 Just as our hero won the race;
     "Look at him roll!"
     They said. "He'll bowl
   On our new bowling alley.

 "The other boys are squarely built;
   For tenpins they'll do finely!
 No matter if a few get kilt,"
   And then they smiled benignly.
 Quickly they kidnapped ten small boys,
 All howling with a fearful noise;
     They took them all,
     And Roy for ball,
   And then they smiled benignly.

 

 They hurried to their home and then
   Began their barbarous bowling.
 They set in rows the children ten
   And then set Roy a-rolling.
 But as the giants were strong and great,
 They shot poor Roy at such a rate,
     And with such might,
     That out of sight
   Poor Roy was set a-rolling.

 

 He rolled and rolled and rolled and rolled,
   But soon, his fears dispelling,
 With happiness he did behold
   He'd safely reached his dwelling.
 Secure and safe from further harms,
 His mother caught him in her arms,
     And said with joy,
     "My darling boy,
  You've safely reached your dwelling."

 Now rolling seems to him to be
   More dangerous than walking.
 And Roly Poly Roy you'll see
   Along the sidewalks stalking.
 He'll always have a certain fear
 That giants may be lurking near,
     And so he'll go
     With motion slow
   Along the sidewalk stalking.

 




 My Barometer


 

 My little maid with golden hair
   Comes each morning for a kiss;
 And I know the day will be fine and fair
   When Polly looks like this.

 

 Or I know the clouds will frown and lower,
   The skies will be dull and gray,
 And perhaps there'll be a passing shower,
   When Polly looks this way.

 

 But a violent storm of rain or snow
   I can prognosticate,
 For the sign will never fail, I know,
   When this is Polly's pate.




 The Butter Betty Bought


 Betty Botta bought some butter;
 "But," said she, "this butter's bitter!
 If I put it in my batter
 It will make my batter bitter.
 But a bit o' better butter
 Will but make my batter better."
 Then she bought a bit o' butter
 Better than the bitter butter,
 Made her bitter batter better.
 So 'twas better Betty Botta
 Bought a bit o' better butter.




 

 A Marvel


 An old astronomer there was
   Who lived up in a tower,
 Named Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.
 He said: "I can prognosticate
   With estimates correct;
 And when the skies I contemplate,
   I know what to expect.
 When dark'ning clouds obscure my sight,
   I think perhaps 'twill rain;
 And when the stars are shining bright,
   I know 'tis clear again."
 And then abstractedly he scanned
   The heavens, hour by hour,
 Old Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.




 An Alphabet Zoo


 A was an apt Alligator,
 Who wanted to be a head-waiter;
     He said, "I opine
     In that field I could shine,
 Because I am such a good skater."

 B was a beggarly Bear,
 Who carefully curled his front hair;
     He said, "I would buy
     A red-spotted tie,--
 But I haven't a penny to spare."

 C was a cool Chimpanzee,
 Who went to an afternoon tea.
     When they said, "Will you take
     A caraway cake?"
 He greedily took twenty-three!

 D was a diligent Doe,
 In summer she shovelled the snow;
     In the spring and the fall
     She did nothing at all,
 And in winter the grass she would mow.

 E was an erudite Ermine,
 Who tried very hard to determine
     If he _should_ earn a cent,
     How it ought to be spent,
 And decided to purchase a sermon.

 F was a fussy Flamingo,
 Who remarked to his family, "By jingo!
     I think I would go
     To that animal show,
 But they all talk such barbarous lingo."

 G was a giddy Gazelle,
 Who never could learn how to spell;
     But she managed to pass
     To the head of her class,
 Because she did fractions so well.

 H was a haughty young Hawk,
 Who affected society talk;
     But when introduced
     At a large chicken roost
 He excitedly screamed out, "Oh, Lawk!"

 I was an idle Iguana,
 Who lived upon curried banana;
     With tears he'd protest
     That he never could rest
 Till he learned to sing "Eileen Alanna."

 J was a jimp Jaguar,
 Who purchased a Spanish guitar;
     He played popular airs
     At _fêtes_ and at fairs,
 And down at the Fancy Bazaar.

 K was a kind Kangaroo,
 Whose bonnet was always askew;
     So they asked her to wait
     While they put it on straight
 And fastened it firmly with glue.

 L was a lachrymose Leopard,
 Who ate up twelve sheep and a shepherd,
     But the real reason why
     He continued to cry
 Was his food was so lavishly peppered.

 M was a mischievous Marten,
 Who went to the Free Kindergarten;
     When they asked him to plat
     A gay-colored mat,
 He tackled the job like a Spartan.

 N was a naughty Nylghau,
 Who wandered too near a buzz saw.
     It cut off his toes,
     And the shrieks that arose
 Filled all of the neighbors with awe.

 O was an ossified Oyster,
 Who decided to enter a cloister.
     He could not return,
     So continued to yearn
 For his home in the sea, which was moister.

 P was a poor old Poll Parrot,
 Who had nothing to eat but a carrot,
     And nothing to wear
     But a wig of red hair,
 And nowhere to live but a garret.

 Q was a querulous Quab
 Who at every trifle would sob;
     He said, "I detest
     To wear a plaid vest,
 And I hate to eat corn from the cob!"

 R was a rollicking Ram,
 Attired in an old pillow sham.
     When asked if he'd call
     At the masquerade ball,
 He said, "I'll go just as I am."

 S was a shy Salamander,
 Who slept on a sunny veranda.
     She calmly reposed,
     But, alas! while she dozed
 They caught her and killed her and canned her.

 T was a tidy young Tapir,
 Who went out to bring in the paper;
     And when he came back
     He made no muddy track,
 For he wiped his feet clean on the scraper.

 U was a young Unicorn,
 The bravest that ever was born.
     They bought him a boat
     And they set him afloat,
 And straightway he sailed for Cape Horn.

 V was a vigorous Vulture,
 Who taught animals physical culture;
     When a pupil dropped dead,
     The kind teacher said,
 "You needn't consider sepulture."

 W was a wild Worm,
 All day he did nothing but squirm.
     They sent him to school,
     But he broke every rule,
 And left at the end of the term.

 X was a Xiphias brave,
 Who lived on the crest of the wave.
     To each fish he would say,
     "Good day, sir, good day!"
 And then a polite bow he gave.

 Y was a young Yellowhammer,
 Who raised a ridiculous clamor;
     And he chattered until
     An owl said, "Keep still!
 I'm trying to study my grammar."

 Z was a zealous old Zibet,
 Toboggans he tried to prohibit.
     If any one tried
     To take a sly slide,
 He ordered him hanged on a gibbet.




 Found Wanting


 

 There lived a wondrous sculptor once, a genius in his way,
 Named Phidias Praxiteles Canova Merryday.
 He sat within his studio and said, "I really must
 Begin a Rhodian anaglyptic ceroplastic bust.

 "My customers demand them, their fame rings near and far,
 But then, alas, the trouble is, I don't know what they are.
 Though I could carve a Venus or a Belvedere with ease,
 My wondrous skill is lacking when it comes to carving these.

 "I cast and cut and chisel, I model and I mould,
 I copy poses picturesque from studies new and old;
 In marble, bronze, and potter's clay, in wax and wood and stone
 I carve the old-time statues with improvements of my own.

 

 "I have Apollo on a horse, Minerva on a wheel,
 Hercules going fishing with his basket and his creel.
 A Mercury on roller-skates, Diana with a hat,
 And Venus playing tennis with Achilles at the bat.

 "Yet these my customers pass by, and ask with interest keen,
 For things with long and tiresome names,--I don't know what they mean.
 And so I let my hammers hang, and let my chisels rust,
 For I cannot do an anaglyptic ceroplastic bust."




 A Tragic Tale of Tea


 

 The Beetle was blind, and the Bat was blinder,
 And they went to take tea with the Scissors-grinder.
 The Scissors-grinder had gone away
 Across the ocean to spend the day;
 But he'd tied his bell to the grapevine swing.
 The Bat and the Beetle heard it ring,
 And neither the Beetle nor Bat could see
 Why no one offered them any tea.
 So, polite and patient, they're waiting yet
 For the cup of tea they expect to get.

 




 The Erratic Rat


 

 There was a ridiculous Rat
 Who was awfully puffy and fat.
     "I'll carry," he said,
     "This plate on my head,
 'Twill answer in place of a hat."

 

 And then he remarked with a frown,
 "I suppose that I must have a gown;
     I'll make me a kilt
     Of this old crazy-quilt,
 To wear when I'm going to town.

 "And of course, though the weather is warm,
 It may be there'll come up a storm;
     An umbrella I'll make
     Of a caraway cake,
 It'll match with my whole uniform.

 And I'll carry a bottle of ink
 In case I should wish for a drink;
     And this flat-iron so sweet
     I'll take with me to eat,
 And now I am ready, I think."

 




 




 The Smiling Shark


 There was an old Shark with a smile
 So broad you could see it a mile.
     He said to his friends,
     As he sewed up the ends,
 "It was really too wide for the style."

 




 The Mercury's Plaint


 

 I don't know why I'm slandered so,
 If I go high,--if I go low,--
 There's always some one who will say,
 "Just see that mercury to-day!"
 And whether toward the top I crawl
 Or down toward zero I may fall,
 They always fret, and say that I
 Am far too low or far too high.
 Although I try with all my might,
 I never seem to strike it right.
 Now I admit it seems to me
 They show great inconsistency.
 But _they_ imply _I_ am to blame;
 Of course that makes my anger flame,
 And in a fiery fit of pique
 I stay at ninety for a week.
 Or sometimes in a dull despair,
 I give them just a frigid stare;
 And as upon their taunts I think
 My spirits down to zero sink.
 Mine is indeed a hopeless case;
 To strive to please the human race!

 




 The Pirate Poodle


 Once there was a Pirate Poodle,
   And he sailed the briny seas
 From the land of Yankee Doodle
   Southward to the Caribbees.

 

 He would boast with tales outlandish,
   Of his valor and renown;
 And his cutlass he would brandish
   With a fearful pirate frown.

 So ferocious was his manner
   All his crew looked on, aghast;
 And his fearful pirate banner
   Floated from his pirate mast.

 He reiterated proudly
   Naught had power to make him quail;
 Yet when thunder roared _too_ loudly
   He would turn a trifle pale.

 And he turned a little paler
   When there came a sudden squall;
 For this funny little sailor
   Was ridiculously small.

 

 And whene'er a storm portended
   He'd betake himself below.
 So much fear and courage blended
   Did a pirate ever show?




 

 An Old Love


 Priscilla, Auntie's promised me
   A brand-new Paris doll;
 And though I love you, yet you see
   I cannot keep you all.

 Nursey declares I really must
   Throw one of you away;
 And you're the oldest, so I trust
   You will not care to stay.

 You've lost an arm, your dress is torn,
   Your wig is all awry;
 Priscilla, you are so forlorn,
   We'll have to say good-by.

 And yet--oh, don't! my dolly dear,
   _Don't_ look so sad, I pray!
 You precious dolly, come right here,
   You _shan't_ be thrown away!

 You're ragged, yes, and lame and blind,
   You're really but a wreck;
 But, dear Priscilla, never mind,
   _I_ do not care a speck.

 Your eyes do nicely when they're shut,
   And I can mend the rest;
 Well--p'raps I'll love the new one--but
   I'll always love _you_ best.




 Bobby's Pocket


 Our Bobby is a little boy, of six years old, or so;
 And every kind of rubbish in his pocket he will stow.

 One day he thought he'd empty it (so he again could stock it);
 And here's an alphabet of what was found in Bobby's pocket.

 A was a rosy Apple, with some bites out, here and there;
 B was a bouncing rubber Ball that bounded in the air.

 C was a crispy crusty Cake with citron on the top;
 D was a dancing Donkey that could jump around and hop.

 E was a little robin's Egg, all speckled blue and brown;
 F was a fluffy Feather that was white and soft as down.

 G was a lively Grasshopper, whose legs and wings were green;
 H was a grimy Handkerchief that once perhaps was clean.

 I was a plaster Image that had lost its plaster head;
 J was a jolly Jumping-Jack all painted blue and red.

 K was a keen and shining Knife, 'twould cut the toughest bark;
 L was a little wooden Lion, strayed out of Noah's Ark.

 M was a Marble, large and round, with colors bright and clear;
 N was a bent and rusty Nail, of little use, I fear.

 O was a tiny Oil-can, which was always upside down;
 P was a Penny Bob had saved to spend some day in town.

 Q was a Quilted ear-tab, which had lost its velvet mate;
 R was a Ring with a glassy gem of wondrous size and weight.

 S was a String, a piece of Soap, a Stone, a Sponge, a Stick;
 T was a lump of Taffy, exceeding soft and thick.

 U, an Umbrella-handle, of silver-mounted horn;
 V was a comic Valentine, a little creased and worn.

 W was some sticky Wax, lovely to pinch and mould;
 X was an old Xpress receipt, worn out in every fold.

 Y was a lot of Yellow Yarn, all bunched up like a mop;
 Z was a jagged piece of Zinc, found in a plumber's shop.

 All these are Bob's possessions; he loves every single thing;
 And owning all these treasures he's as happy as a King!




 
Child Songs of Cheer

UP, LITTLE ONES!


    A robin redbreast, fluting there
      Upon the apple-bough,
    Is telling all the world how fair
      Are apple-blossoms now;
    The honey-dew its sweetness spills
      From cuckoo-cups, and all
    The crocuses and daffodils
      Are drest for festival!

    Such pretty things are to be seen,
      Such pleasant things to do,
    The April earth it is so green,
      The April sky so blue,
    The path from dawn to even-song
      So joyous is to-day,
    Up, little ones! and dance along
      The lilac-scented way!




DANDELIONS


    Hey-a-day-a-day, my dear! Dandelion time!
    Come, and let us make for them a pretty little rhyme!

    See the meadows twinkling now, beautiful and bright
    As the sky when through the blue shine the stars at night!

    Once upon a time, folks say, mighty kings of old
    Met upon a splendid field called "The Cloth of Gold."

    But, we wonder, could it be there was ever seen
    Brighter gold than glitters now in our meadows green?

    Dandelions, dandelions, shining through the dew,
    Let the kings have Cloth of Gold, but let _us_ have _you_!




OUR PUPPIES


    Little ears as soft as silk,
    Little teeth as white as milk,
    Little noses cool and pink,
    Little eyes that blink and blink,
    Little bodies round and fat,
    Little hearts that pit-a-pat,
    Surely prettier puppies never
    Were before nor can be ever!




THE LOST BALLOON


    O dear! my purple toy balloon
    Has flown away! and very soon
    It will be high up as the moon!

    And don't you think the man up there
    Will wonder what it is, and stare?
    Perhaps hell say, "_Well, I declare!_"

    Or, maybe if it chance there are
    Some little boys in yonder star,
    And if it floats away so far,

    Perhaps they'll jump up very high
    And catch the cord as it goes by!
    At any rate I hope they'll try!




THE CIRCUS PROCESSION


    _Oh, hurry! hurry!_ here they come,
    The band in front with the big bass drum
    And blaring bugles,--there they are,
    On golden thrones in a golden car,
    Tooting and fluting, oh, how grand!
                Hi diddle, diddle!
                The fife and the fiddle!
    _Hurrah, hurrah_ for the circus band!

    And the red-plumed horses, oh, see them prance
    And daintily lift their hoofs and dance,
    While beautiful ladies with golden curls
    Are jingling their bridles of gold and pearls,
                And close behind
                Come every kind
    Of animal cages great and small,
    O how I wonder what's in them all!

    Here's one that's open and glaring there
    Is the shaggiest snow-white polar bear!
    _Woof!_ but I wonder what we'd do
    If his bars broke loose right now, don't you?
                And O dear me!
                Just look and see
    That pink-cheeked lady in skirts of gauze
    And the great big lion with folded paws!
                O me! O my!
                I'm glad that I
    Am not in that lion's cage, because
    _Suppose he'd open his horrible jaws!_
    --But look! the clown is coming! Of course
    Facing the tail of a spotted horse
    And shouting out things to make folks laugh,
    And grinning up at the tall giraffe
    That placidly paces along and looks
    Just like giraffes in the picture-books!

    And there are the elephants, two and two,
    Lumbering on as they always do!
    The men who lead them look so small
    I wonder the elephants mind at all
                As they wag their queer
                Long trunks, and peer
    Through their beady eyes,--folks say they know
    No end of things, and I'm sure it's so!
    And you never must do a thing that's bad
    Or that possibly might make an elephant mad,
    For he'll never forgive you, it appears,
    And will punish you sure, if it takes him _years!_
                So do not stare
                But take good care
    To mind your manners, and always try
    To smile politely as they go by!

    But the camels don't care if you laugh at them
    With their bumpy humps like a capital M,
                They lurch and sway
                And seem to say,
    As they wrinkle their noses, long and gray,
    "This swaggering stride is quite the plan,
    It's the way we walked in the caravan!"

    And now more cages come rumbling by
    With glittering people throned on high;
    So many spangles and precious things,
    They surely must all be queens and kings!
                They look so proud
                Above the crowd,
    O my, how fine it must feel to ride
    On golden wagons that hide inside
    Strange animals caught in cannibal isles
    And brought in ships for a million miles!
                But hark! it's near
                The end, for hear
    That sudden screeching in piercing key!
    The steaming, screaming _cal-li-o-pe_!
    Just plain pianos sound terribly tame
    Beside this one with the wonderful name,
    And wouldn't you love some day to sit
    In a circus wagon and play on it?




MAY-BASKETS


    Let us take our baskets early
      To the meadows green,
    While the wild-flowers still are pearly
      With the dewdrops' sheen.

    Fill them full of blossoms rosy,
      Violets and gay
    Cowslips, every pretty posy
      Welcoming the May.

    Then our lovely loads we'll carry
      Down the village street,
    On each door, with laughter merry,
      Hang a basket sweet.

    Hey-a-day-day! It is spring now,
      Lazy folks, awake!
    See the pretty things we bring now
      For the May-day's sake!




THE PICTURE-BOOK GIANT


    Once there was a fierce, defiant,
    Greedy, grumpy, grizzly giant
      In the pages of a picture-book, and he
    Sometimes screamed, in sudden rages,
    "I must jump out from these pages,
      For this life's a much too humdrum one for me!
                  Fiddle-dee!
      Yes, this life's a quite too quiet one for me!"

    So one rainy day he did it,
    Took the picture-book and hid it,
      Stamped his foot, and shouting loudly,
          "Now I'm free!"
    Boldly started out, forgetting
    That he could not stand a wetting!
    He was just a paper giant, don't you see?
              Dearie me!
    Just a gaudy, picture giant, don't you see?




DID YOU EVER?


    Did you ever see a fairy in a rose-leaf coat and cap
    Swinging in a cobweb hammock as he napped his noonday nap?

    Did you ever see one waken very thirsty and drink up
    All the honey-dew that glimmered in a golden buttercup?

    Did you ever see one fly away on rainbow-twinkling wings?
    If you did not, why, how comes it that you never see such things?




DECORATION DAY


    See the soldiers, little ones!
      Hark the drummers' beat!
    See them with their flags and guns
      Marching down the street!

    Tattered flags from out the wars,
      Let us follow these
    To the little stripes and stars
      Twinkling through the trees.

    Watch them waving through the grass
      Where the heroes sleep!
    Thither gently let us pass
      On this day we keep.

    Let us bring our blossoms, too,
      All our gardens grow;
    Lilacs honey-sweet with dew,
      And the lilies' snow.

    Every posy of the May,
      Every bloomy stem,
    Every bud that breaks to-day
      Gather now for them.

    Lay the lilies o'er them thus,
      Lovingly, for so
    Down they laid their lives for us,
      Long and long ago.

    Heap above them bud and bough;
      Softly, ere we cease,
    God, we pray Thee, gently now
      Fold them in Thy peace!




CHU-CHU CARS


    Turn the chairs down in a row
    Each behind the other, so;
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu!_ there they are,
    Passenger and baggage-car,
    _Chu-chu-chu!_ the Morris chair
    Is the engine puffing there,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Ting-a-ling!_
    Don't you hear its big bell ring?
    All aboard! Jump on! if you
    Want to take this train. _Chu-chu!!_
    Off we start now, rushing fast
    Through the fields and valleys, past
    Noisy cities, over bridges,
    Hills and plains and mountain ridges,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Chu-chu-chu!!_
    At such speed it must be true
    Since we started we have come
    Most a million miles from home!
    Jump off, some one! Quick! and go
    To the pantry, for, you know,
    We must have the cookie-jar
    For our Pullman dining-car!




FAIRY RINGS


    Softly in the gloaming
      Flitting through the vale,
    Fairy folk are roaming
      Over hill and dale.

    Pixies in the hollow,
      Elves upon the height,
    Let us follow, follow
      Through the paling light.

    Follow, all unbidden,
      To the grassy glade
    Wrapped around and hidden
      In the forest shade.

    Hark the elfin tinkle
      Of their little lutes!
    Mark the golden twinkle
      Of their fairy flutes!

[Illustration: FAIRY RINGS]

    See them dancing, dancing,
      While the silver moon
    Tips their swiftly glancing
      Little silver shoon!

    Tripping, tripping lightly,
      Where their footprints fall,
    Look! the grass is brightly
      Growing green and tall!

    Springing close, unbroken,
      In a fairy ring,
    For to-morrow's token
      Of their frolicking!




THE FIREFLY


    Flash and flicker and fly away,
      Trailing light as you flutter far,
    Are you a lamp for the fairies, say?
      Or a flake of fire from a falling star?




A RAIN SONG


              Tinkle, tinkle,
                Lightly fall
      On the peach buds, pink and small;
    Tip the tiny grass, and twinkle
      On the clover, green and tall.

              Tinkle, tinkle,--
                Faster now,
      Little rain-drops, smite and sprinkle
    Cherry-bloom and apple-bough!
    Pelt the elms, and show them how
              You can dash!
                And splash! splash! splash!
    While the thunder rolls and mutters,
      And the lightnings flash and flash!
              Then eddy into curls
              Of a million misty swirls,
    And thread the air with silver, and embroider it with pearls!

    And patter, patter, patter
    To a quicker time, and clatter
      On the streaming window-pane;
              Rain, rain,
                On the leaves,
                  And the eaves,
      And the turning weather-vane!

    Rush in torrents from the tip
    Of the gable-peak, and drip
      In the garden-bed, and fill
        All the cuckoo-cups, and pour
              More and more
      In the tulip-bowls, and still
                Overspill
      In a crystal tide until
      Every yellow daffodil
    Is flooded to its golden rim, and brimming o'er and o'er!

    Then as gently as the low
      Muffled whir of robin wings,
      Or a sweep of silver strings,
                Even so,
        Take your airy April flight
        Through the merry April light,
    And melt into a mist of rainy music as you go!




FAIRIES


    Grandfather says that sometimes,
      When stars are twinkling and
    A new moon shines, there come times
      When folks see fairy-land!

    So when there's next a new moon,
      I mean to watch all night!
    Grandfather says a blue moon
      Is best for fairy light,

    And in a peach-bloom, maybe,
      If I look I shall see
    A little fairy baby
      No bigger than a bee!




THE LITTLE FIR-TREES


    Hey! little evergreens,
      Sturdy and strong!
    Summer and autumn time
      Hasten along;
    Harvest the sunbeams, then,
      Bind them in sheaves,
    Range them, and change them
      To tufts of green leaves.
    Delve in the mellow mold,
      Far, far below,
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Up, up so airily
      To the blue sky,
    Lift up your leafy tips
      Stately and high;
    Clasp tight your tiny cones,
      Tawny and brown;
    By and by, buffeting
      Rains will pelt down;
    By and by, bitterly
      Chill winds will blow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Gather all uttermost
      Beauty, because,--
    Hark, till I tell it now!
      How Santa Claus,
    Out of the northern land,
      Over the seas,
    Soon shall come seeking you,
      Evergreen trees!
    Seek you with reindeer soon,
      Over the snow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    What if the maples flare
      Flaunting and red,
    You shall wear waxen white
      Tapers instead!
    What if now, otherwhere,
      Birds are beguiled,
    You shall yet nestle
      The little Christ-child!
    Ah! the strange splendor
      The fir-trees shall know!
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!




THE WREN-HOUSE


    Yesterday I took my saw
      And some bits of wood,
    And I made a little house
      Nicely as I could.

    I put on a mossy-green
      Little pointed roof,
    And I cut a tiny door
      That is pussy-proof.

    For I hope some little wrens
      To our yard will come
    And will choose my little house
      For their little home.

    I shall hang it in the boughs
      Of the apple-tree,
    And I'm sure as rent for it
      They will sing to me!




THE BABY'S RIDE


    Chee! Chee! Chickadee!
      Sing-time and sun!
    Aye, aye, baby-bye,
      Springtime has begun!

       *       *       *       *       *

    In the little willow cart,
      On a downy bed,
    Pretty parasol of silk
      Swinging overhead,

    Let us go along the lane
      Where a baby sees
    Mighty tufts of grass, and weeds
      Tall as forest trees!

    Bluebird on the apple-bough,
      Sing and sing and sing!
    Sing your very sweetest now
      For babyhood and spring!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Bah! Bah!" from the pasture,
      And "Caw! Caw!" from the crow,
    And bleating from the little calf
      That has not learned to low.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Apple-buds, apple-buds breaking apart,
      The baby looks upward with love-laden gaze;
    Oh, shower some petals down here in his cart,
      One honey-sweet cluster of pretty pink sprays!

    Apple-buds, apple-buds, scornful and too
      Vain of your loveliness, stay where you are!
    The cheeks of the baby are pinker than you,
      And finer and softer and sweeter by far!

       *       *       *       *       *

    See the pretty little lambs,
      How they frisk and play!
    See their silky fleeces shine
      White as buds in May!

    White as are the fleecy clouds
      Softly blowing by--
    What if they were little lambs
      Playing in the sky?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Robin on the peach-bough,
      Swinging overhead,
    Sing a little song and say
      Why is your breast so red?

    Why is your voice so sweet, and
      Your song so merry, say?
    And wherefore do you spread your wings
      And quickly fly away?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Ho, ho! see the queer little prints there
      That cover the road, baby, look!
    At the web-footed tangle that hints where
      The ducks have gone down to the brook!

    The Muscovy mammas that waddled
      Zigzag, you can trace in their tracks,
    And the dear little ducklings that toddled
      And tumbled sometimes on their backs!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Buttercup, buttercup, buttercup gold,
    O give us a handful of riches to hold!

    Ho, ho! laughs the baby, and grasps in his glee
    His wealth, but soon shows what a spend-thrift is he!
    --Nay, nay, he is king, though he never was crowned,
    And royally scatters his gold on the ground!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Bough of the willow-tree
      Over the brook,
    Down darts a kingfisher,
      Look, baby, look!

    Back on the willow-bough,
      Fishing is done;
    Happy and nappy now
      There in the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Happy and nappy the baby is, too,
    Softly his eyelids droop over the blue,
    Golden his curls on the white pillow lie,
    Sleep, baby, sleep, baby, hush-a-by-bye.




AN INDIAN RAID


    Did you see some Indians passing,
      Just a short while back?
    Looks as if they must be massing
      For a fierce attack!

    Buckskin fringes, turkey-feather
      Huge head-dresses and
    Bows and arrows, altogether
      Quite a frightful band!

    From the lilac-bushes springing,
      See them rushing! Ugh!
    Awful war-whoops wildly ringing!
      There'll be scalping, too!

    In their fearful frenzy leaping,
      It is very plain
    Soon around us they'll be heaping
      Mountains of the slain!

    Soon their victims will be falling--
      But, above the noise,
    Hark! I hear somebody calling,
      "Come to dinner, boys!"




THE FIRST SLEIGH-RIDE


    O happy time of fleecy rime
      And falling flakes, and O
    The glad surprise in baby eyes
      That never saw the snow!

    Down shining ways the flying sleighs
      Go jingling by, and see!
    Beside the gate the horses wait
      And neigh for you and me!




SLEEPY TIME


    Hey, baby! Ho, baby! here upon my knee,
    See the firelight flicker over you and me!

    See the tiny people basking in the glow,
    Peering through the ruddy little coals, and so

    How they dance and scamper! Merry fairy folk!
    Little sparks for spangles, little wings of smoke!

    Come baby, come baby, nestle in my arms;
    Hear the purring flames now sing their sleepy charms.

    All the firelight fairies, all the drowsy elves,
    In the downy ashes cover up themselves.

    And I fold the little blanket over you;
    Bye baby, my baby, let us slumber too.




WHEN BETTIE AND ANNE WENT WALKING


        When they took their dollies walking,
        They were both so busy talking,
    (They had not met for half an hour and so had much to say)
        That they heedlessly kept going
        Down the shady streets, not knowing,
    Till they wanted to come back again, they could not find the way!

        In their fright they felt forlorner
        Every time they turned a corner,
    And they wailed to one another, "Oh, whatever shall we do?
        A big bear might come to bite us,
        Or a dreadful dog to fight us,
    Or the wicked gipsies get us! _Oh, boo-hoo! Boo-hoo! Boo-hoo!_"

        But this story, though a sad one,
        Has an end that's not a bad one,
    For at last somebody found them as they bade the world good-by;
        They took their dollies home again,
        And vowed they'd never roam again,
    And their mothers hugged and kissed them, saying, "There, my dears,
            don't cry!"




THE BLUEBIRD


    To-day at dawn there twinkled through
    The pearly mist a flash of blue
      So dazzling bright I thought the sky
      Shone through the rifted clouds on high,
              Till, by and by,
    A note so honey-sweet I heard,
    I knew that bright flash was a bird!




THE ORGAN-GRINDER


    Hark! I hear the organ-grinder
      Coming down the street,
    And the sudden clatter-patter
      Of the children's feet!

    Come, oh, let us run to meet him!
      Did you ever hear
    Tunes so gay as he is playing,
      Or so sweet and clear?

    See the brown-faced little monkey,
      Impudent and bold,
    With his little scarlet jacket
      Braided all in gold!

    And his tiny cap and tassel
      Bobbing to and fro,
    Look, oh, look! he plucks it off now,
      Bowing very low.

    And he's passing it politely--
      Can it be for _pay_?
    O dear me! I have no penny!
      Let us run away!




THE NEW MOON


    Pretty new moon, little new moon,
      Now, as first I look at you,
    I must make a wish, for wise folks
      Say it surely will come true!

    Little new moon, pretty new moon,
      I wish--but I must not tell!
    For if any one should hear it,
      Wise folks say it breaks the spell!




SHOWERY TIME


    The April rain-drops tinkle
      In cuckoo-cups of gold,
    And warm south winds unwrinkle
      The buds the peach-boughs hold.

    In countless fluted creases
      The little elm-leaves show,
    While white as carded fleeces
      The dogwood blossoms blow.

    A rosy robe is wrapping
      The early red-bud trees;
    But still the haws are napping,
      Nor heed the honey-bees.

    And still in lazy sleeping
      The apple-buds are bound,
    But tulip-tips are peeping
      From out the garden ground.

    And yonder, gayly swinging
      Upon the turning vane,
    A robin redbreast singing
      Makes merry at the rain!




EASTER DAY


    Christ the Lord is risen to-day!
    Angels rolled the stone away
    From the tomb wherein He lay!

    Little children, come and sing,
    "Glory, glory to the King,
    Christ the Lord of everything!"




THE SANDMAN


    The Sandman! hark, I hear him!
      He's coming up the stair,
    And everybody near him
      Is nodding, I declare!

    He's peeping in the door now,
      And first of all he spies,
    As he has done before now,
      The little children's eyes!

    Then quickly does he throw it,
      His golden sleepy-sand,
    And all, before they know it,
      Are off for sleepy-land!




DANDELION CURLS


    Ah, ha, ha, now! who comes here
    Wreathed in flowers of gold and queer
    Tiny tangled curls of green
    Gayly bobbing in between?

    Pretty token of the spring!
    Hark! we hear the bluebirds sing
    When we thus see little girls
    Decked in dandelion curls.




POP-CORN


             _Pop! Pop!--Poppetty-pop!_
    Shake and rattle and rattle and shake
    The golden grains as they bounce and break
    To fluffy puffiness--_Poppetty-pop!_
    Bursting and banging the popper's top!
             _Poppetty-pop!
                  Pop! Pop!_

    The yellow kernels, oh, see them grow
    White as cotton or flakes of snow!
               _Pop! Pop!_
    O-ho, how they frolic and fly about
    And turn themselves suddenly inside out!
    _Pop-pop-poppetty! Pop-pop-pop!_
    The popper's full and we'll have to stop;
    Pile the bowl with the tempting treat,
    Children, come, it is time to eat!




THE RASH LITTLE SPARROW


      Rash little sparrow
        Up in the nest;
    Feathers not long enough,
    Wee wings not strong enough!
        Poor little sparrow!
        Poor little breast!




WHAT IF?


    When I see the new moon lightly
     Through cloud ripples slip,
    Then I'm sure that shining brightly
     It's a fairy ship!

    What if in it we were sailing
     Far and far away,
    With a wake of silver trailing,
     Till the golden day?

    Why, we'd fly back home together
     Safely from the sky,
    For the moon's a fairy feather
     When the sun is high!




EASTER EGGS


    Seven little nests of hay
    We have made, for Easter day
    Is to-morrow, and you know
    We must have them ready, so
    When the Rabbit comes she'll see
    We expected her, that we
    Children tried our very best
    Each to make the nicest nest.

    One is in the lilac-bush,
    Near the ground--last year a thrush
    Built a nest there--let me see,
    Two are by the apple-tree,
    In the clover--that makes three--
    One beside the playhouse door,
    --Three plus one, that must be four--
    Two are in the tulip-bed--
    Was it seven that I said?
    Oh, yes! six I've counted, and
    One is in our pile of sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Come and see! Oh, hurry, hurry!
    For the Rabbit, kind and furry,
    Has been here again and laid
    Eggs in every nest we made!
    Purple, orange, red, and blue,
    Pink and green and yellow, too,
    Like a bunch of finest flowers
    Ever seen, and all are ours!
    And oh, _look!_ What _do_ you think!
    Here our names are in white ink,
    All spelled nicely so we know
    Just where every egg should go!
    Is it not surprising, quite,
    How well Easter Rabbits write?




THE BIRDS' BATH


    In our garden we have made
      Such a pretty little pool,
    Lined with pebbles neatly laid,
      Filled with water clean and cool.

    [Illustration: THE BIRDS' BATH]

    When the sun shines warm and high
      Robins cluster round its brink,
    Never one comes flying by
      But will flutter down to drink.

    Then they splash and splash and splash,
      Spattering little showers bright
    All around, till off they flash
      Singing sweetly their delight.




NOVEMBER MORNING


    A tingling, misty marvel
      Blew hither in the night,
    And now the little peach-trees
      Are clasped in frozen light.

    Upon the apple-branches
      An icy film is caught,
    With trailing threads of gossamer
      In pearly patterns wrought.

    The autumn sun, in wonder,
      Is gayly peering through
    This silver-tissued network
      Across the frosty blue.

    The weather-vane is fire-tipped,
      The honeysuckle shows
    A dazzling icy splendor,
      And crystal is the rose.

    Around the eaves are fringes
      Of icicles that seem
    To mock the summer rainbows
      With many-colored gleam.

    Along the walk, the pebbles
      Are each a precious stone;
    The grass is tasseled hoarfrost,
      The clover jewel-sown.

    Such sparkle, sparkle, sparkle
      Fills all the frosty air,
    Oh, can it be that darkness
      Is ever anywhere!




THE RUNAWAY


    A frantic clatter of horses' feet!
    A runaway's coming down the street!
          Flurry, scurry,
          Children, hurry!
    Drop your playthings! Quick! don't wait!
    Run and get within the gate!
    Push the baby in the door,
    Scramble in yourselves before
          --_Whoa! Whoa!_
          There they go!
    Pell-mell rushing, snorting, quaking,
    Wagon rumbling, harness breaking,
    Frightened so they cannot know
    Everybody's shrieking "_Whoa!_"
          O my, don't cry!
      Whiz, bang, they've galloped by!
    No one hurt, but horses dashed
    Round a post and wagon smashed!
          Dear me! Dear me!
      When a runaway we see,
    Children, too, must run, oh, fast!
    Run and hide as it goes past!




LOST!


    "Peep! Peep! Peep!" Poor little chick!
      Little cry so weak and small,
    Meadow grass so tall and thick,
      And the clover tufts so tall!

    Little heart in sore distress,
      Longing for the mother wing;
    Through the weedy wilderness
      Searching for its sheltering!




THE QUEEN'S PAGE


    Once I was a little page
      To a May-day queen,
    And I wore a little coat
      Made of Lincoln green.

    Oh, the queen was beautiful!
      And she had a bright
    Crown of golden cuckoo-buds
      And violets blue and white.

    On the step beside her throne
      I sat very still,
    Ready, as a page should be,
      To obey her will.

    And before us little girls,
      Each with garlands gay,
    Round a May-pole danced and sang
      Almost all the day.




OUR TREE-TOAD


    Grandfather says the tree-toad,
      That to our yard has come,
    Is just a little wee toad
      No bigger than his thumb!

    And that his coat's so queer it
      Can turn from green to blue!
    Whatever color's near it,
      Why, that's its color, too!

    And then Grandfather snickers
      And says, "Would you suppose
    He climbs with little stickers
      On all his little toes?

    "And don't you wish your toes now
      Were fixed like his? For, see,
    Right up the elm he goes now
      And sticks tight to the tree!"

    "But then," he says, "O dear me!
      If all the little boys
    Could _screech_ as loud, I fear me
      There'd be a dreadful noise!"




IN THE WATER-WORLD


    Down among the water-weeds,
      Darting through the grass,
    Round about the tasseled reeds,
      See the minnows pass!
    See the little turtles there,
      Hiding, half asleep,
    Tucked in tangled mosses where
      Tiny crayfish creep!

    Watch the trailing grasses string
      Strands of purple shells
    That the lazy ripples ring,
      Sweet as silver bells;
    Watch the sunshine sift and drift
      Down the eddy whirls,
    Whence the laden whiteweeds lift
      Loads of blossom pearls;

    While the limpid shadows slip
      Softly in between,
    And the pussy-willows dip
      Lightly in the green
    Of the mocking trees that grow
      Down the water-sky,
    Flecked with fleecy clouds that blow
      Where the reed-birds fly.

    Oh, such marvels manifold
      Fill the summer stream,
    Such enticing things untold
      Through the ripples gleam,
    If you could a moment turn
      Into what you wish,
    Would it not be fun to be
      Yonder little fish?




WHO WAS IT?


    Of course I've heard the moon's green cheese,
    But will somebody tell me, please,
    Who was it took so big a bite
    There's scarcely any left to-night?




VISITING DAY


    I'll wear the striped skirt that trails,
      And you the flowered one,
    And we will take our parasols
      And walk out in the sun.

    We'll leave our dolly-carts at home,
      For ladies, when they call,
    Must not have children with them, no,
      That would not do at all.

    And I'll be "Mrs. Wilkinson,"
      And you'll be "Mrs. Brown,"
    And we will call and call and call
      On every one in town!




A VALENTINE TO CATHERINE


    If you will be my True-Love,
      I'll tell you what I'll do,
    I'll ask a little bluebird
      To sing a song to you.

    When first you see a violet
      And softly pricking through
    The garden-bed come crocuses
      And golden tulips, too,

    Then watch! for he'll be coming,
      The little bird of blue;
    He'll sing, "I love you, Sweetheart,
      It's true, true, true!"




FIREFLIES


    Look! Look down in the garden how
    The firefly lights are flitting now!
    A million tiny sparks I know
    Flash through the pinks and golden-glow,
    And I am very sure that all
    Have come to light a fairy ball,
    And if I could stay up I'd see
    How gay the fairy folks can be!




THE RAINY DAY


    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      And skies that never rain!

    As pirates bold with bags of gold
      And cutlasses and things,
    We'll pack doubloons and silver spoons
      In chests with iron rings.

    And these we'll carry and secretly bury
      In cannibal isles afar;
    Like Captain Kidd, when they're safely hid
      We won't tell where they are.

    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      --But at night sail home again!




THE FIRST RED-BIRD


    I heard a song at daybreak,
      So honey-sweet and clear,
    The essence of all joyous things
      Seemed mingling in its cheer.

    The frosty world about me
      I searched with eager gaze,
    But all was slumber-bound and wrapped
      In violet-tinted haze.

    Then suddenly a sunbeam
      Shot slanting o'er the hill,
    And once again from out the sky
      I heard that honied trill.

    And there upon a poplar,
      Poised at its topmost height,
    I saw a little singer clad
      In scarlet plumage bright.

    The poplar branches quivered,
      By dawn winds lightly blown,
    And like a breeze-swept poppy-flower
      The red-bird rocked and shone.

    The blue sky, and his feathers
      Flashed o'er by golden light,
    Oh, all my heart with rapture thrilled,
      It was so sweet a sight!




THE WEATHER-VANE


    Turn, turn, when pelting rain
    Rushes down the window-pane;
    Turn, turn, and turn again
    When the sun shines, weather-vane!

      Fie! Fie! to always be
      Emblem of uncertainty!
      Followed by the restless sea,
    Changeful moons may wax and wane,
      Yet the moons and sea-tides, too,
      Constant are compared to you!
    Fickle still you must remain
    Long as winds blow, weather-vane!




THE SWAN


    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    Come and tell me is it true
    That a snow-white swan like you,
    Guided by bright golden chains
    In his beak for bridle reins,
    Once upon a time from far
    Fabled lands where fairies are
    Brought a magic boat wherein
    Rode the brave knight Lohengrin?

    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    If you only wore a gold
    Harness, like that swan of old,
    And if trailing in your wake
    Sailing on the silver lake
    Was a boat of magic and
    You could float to fairy-land,
    Then I'd jump in and begin
    Traveling like Lohengrin!




BABY'S BAKING


    So, so, spade and hoe,
      Little pile of sand;
    See it turning into dough
      In the baby's hand!

    Little pie with crimpy crust,
      Set it in the sun;
    Sugar it with powdered dust,
      And bake it till it's done.




A SURE SIGN


    When you see upon the walk
    Circles newly made of chalk,
    And around them all the day
    Little boys in eager play
    Rolling marbles, agates fine,
    Banded, polished, red as wine,
    Marbles crystal as the dew,
    Each with rainbows twisted through,
    Marbles gay in painted clay,
    Flashing, twinkling in your way,
    When the walk has blossomed so,
    Surely every one must know
    None need wonder who has heard
    Robin, wren, or Peter-bird;
    Sure the sign as song or wing,
          It is spring!




ANOTHER SURE SIGN


    When pink-cheeked on every hand
    Little girls are seen to stand
    Turning skipping ropes,--_swish-swash!_--
    While their laughing playmates run
    Jumping over,--oh, what fun!--
      _Swish-swash! Swish-swash!_
    Two and two now, see them dash!
      _One, two, one, two,_
    Round they scamper, safely through,
    _Swish-swash!_ such merry skipping,
    _One, two,_--some one is tripping!
    Ah, she's out now and must pay
    Turning rope while others play!
    See the bobbing golden curls,
    Little skirts in rhythmic swirls
    Rising, falling, to the beat
    Of the little skipping feet!
    When these pretty sights appear,
    It is surely very clear
            April's here!




THE ROBIN'S BATH


    A flash and flicker of dripping wings,
      A wet red breast that glows
    Bright as the newly opened bud
      The first red poppy shows,
    A sparkle of flying rainbow drops,
      A glint of golden sun
    On ruffled feathers, a snatch of song,
      And the robin's bath is done.




THE FROSTED PANE


        When I wakened, very early,
        All my window-pane was pearly
    With a sparkling little picture traced in lines of shining white;
        Some magician with a gleaming
        Frosty brush, while I was dreaming,
    Must have come and by the starlight worked through all the quiet night.

        He had painted frosty people,
        And a frosty church and steeple,
    And a frosty bridge and river tumbling over frosty rocks;
        Frosty mountain peaks that glimmered,
        And fine frosty ferns that shimmered,
    And a frosty little pasture full of frosty little flocks.

        It was all touched in so lightly
        And it glittered, oh, so whitely,
    That I gazed and gazed in wonder at the lovely painted pane;
        Then the sun rose high and higher
        With his wand of golden fire
    Till, alas, my picture vanished and I looked for it in vain!




THE FIRST SNOW


    The snow! the snow! Whoop! Hooray! Ho! Ho!
    Plunge in the deep drifts and toss it up so!
      Rollick and roll in the feathery fleece
      Plucked out of the breasts of the marvelous geese
    By the little old woman who lives in the sky;
    Have ever you seen her? No, neither have I!




GRANDFATHER KNOWS


    Grandfather says of all things
      The silliest he's heard
    Is that some children call things
      They've never seen, "absurd!"
    And have their doubts of true things,
      And won't believe, because
    They say, "If you but knew things,
      There _is_ no Santa Claus!"

    Grandfather says he _knows_ him,
      And sees him every year,
    And Santa often shows him
      The playthings he brings here;
    He says, too, Santa told him
      If any girls and boys
    Laugh at and won't uphold him,
      They'll not get any toys!




SLEIGH-BELLS


    Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle!
      Happy winter-time!
    Baby's eyes a-twinkle,
      Hear the sleigh-bells chime!

    Each one rings a merry
      Ting-a-ling-a-ling!
    For a sleigh-bell fairy
      Hides inside to sing.

    See them quake and quiver,
      Up and downward tossed,
    Seems as if they shiver
      In the nipping frost!

    Shiver into laughter,
      Jolly little elves!
    Till we laugh thereafter,
      Merry as themselves!




THE RED-BIRD


    Swept lightly by the south wind
      The elm-leaves softly stirred,
    And in their pale green clusters
      There straightway bloomed a bird!

    His glossy feathers glistened
      With dyes as richly red
    As any tulip flaming
      From out the garden bed.

    But ah, unlike the tulips,
      In joyous strain, ere long,
    This red-bird flower unfolded
      A heart of golden song!




WILD BEASTS


    I will be a lion
      And you shall be a bear,
    And each of us will have a den
      Beneath a nursery chair;
    And you must growl and growl and growl,
      And I will roar and roar,
    And then--why, then--you'll growl again,
      And I will roar some more!




WHEREFORE WINGS?


    Heigho, sparrow! Reckless of the rain;
      When chill the cheerless wind grows,
    Chirping might and main!
      Is it naught, then, when the rose
                Blows again?

    Beating, sleeting on your draggled coat!
      Surely, 'tis enough to drown
    Any happy note
      Nestling in that downy brown
                Little throat.

    Ah me, sparrow! Had I but your power,
      Think you in the freezing sleet
    I would waste an hour?
      --I'd sing my sweetest to a sweet
                Orange flower!




BASKING


    Frosty winter chased away
      By the blessed sun,
    Down upon the garden walks
      Basking has begun.

    Oh, the happy, happy heat!
      How the pulses stir,
    How it warms the hearts beneath
      Little coats of fur!

    Oh, the happy pussy-cats!
      Days to doze and doze,
    And what pleasant dreams they dream
      Only pussy knows.




WITH A MAY-BASKET FOR BABY AGNES


              Peach-buds to meet thee,
              Robins to greet thee,
    Hey, little Sweetheart! and May morning, hey!
              Sunbeam and sing time,
              Bluebird and wing time,
    This time is kiss time for sweethearts, I say!

              Dearest, God bless thee,
              Fold and caress thee,
    Unto thy cradle may good fairies fly!
              Fortune be fair for thee,
              This is my prayer for thee,
    Lullaby, little one, hush-a-by-bye!

              So for a love now
              Token thereof now,
    Sweet, see this tiny May-basket I bring;
              Posies to play with,
              Pinks to be gay with,
    Dear little baby of sunshine and spring!




THE LITTLE NEST


    A little picture haunts me;
      It comes and comes again;
    It is a tiny bird's-nest,
      All ragged from the rain.

    It clings within a birch-tree
      Upon the moorland's edge,
    Between the barren branches,
      Above the swaying sedge.

    The sky is gray behind it,
      And when the north winds blow,
    The birch-tree bends and shivers,
      And tosses to and fro.

    I wonder, does it haunt them,
      The birds that flew away?
    And will they come to seek it,
      Some sunny summer day?

    I wonder, does some redbreast
      Upon an orange-bough,
    Still picture it as plainly
      As I can see it now?

    Ah me! I would forget it,
      Yet still, with sense of pain,
    I see this little bird's-nest
      Within the driving rain.




CHRISTMAS CANDLES


    When the Christ-child comes again
      Softly down the street to-night,
    Twinkling through the window pane
      Let our candles shed their light.

    Though the clouds are dark above
      And the golden stars are dim,
    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.

    Oh, the blessed Christ-child dear,
      In His robe of shining white,
    Let our candles give Him cheer
      As He passes by to-night!




A SONG OF THE CHRISTMAS-TREE

[Illustration: CHRISTMAS CANDLES]

    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.


    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    With its glory and glitter and mystery!
    Its twinkling candles that bud and bloom
    Like strange bright flowers in the darkened room,
    Its glistening gold and silver balls,
    Its candy canes and its blue-eyed dolls,
    The sugary fruits it bears,--for oh,
    Where else do such wonderful sweetmeats grow?--
    Its tasseled horns and its pop-corn strings
    And all its myriad marvelous things!
                O-ho! and ah-ha!
                  And a hip hurrah!
    For our dear and beautiful tree, because
    It grew in the gardens of Santa Claus

    And he brought it here in his reindeer sleigh
    From ever and ever so far away!
      _So, children, come, let us make a ring
      And all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    That Santa Claus brought to you and me!
    He cut it down with a silver axe--
    There's a tree in each of his million packs!--
    And carried it safely over the snow
    And down our chimney and here, you know;
    Its golden cobwebs that glint and gleam
    He took from a lovely Christmas dream
    And tangled them over it till, behold,
    It shines like the fabled Fleece of Gold!

                Oh, Santa Claus, here's
                  A thrice three cheers
    For garlands green and berries of red,
    And mistletoe clustering overhead,
    For the joy of our Christmas festival!
    But our beautiful tree, it is best of all!
      _And circling still in a merry ring
      We'll still clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree!
    And look, O look to its tip and see
    The feathery slim fir leaves and where,
    In the topmost boughs, is the image fair
    Of the Christ-child nestling amid the green
    And the little brown cones that peep between!

    And high above Him glittering bright
    A gold star sparkles with golden light,
    And we children think, as we gaze on them,
    Of the wonderful Star of Bethlehem,
                Of the lovely Star
                  And the Kings who far,
    Oh, far, came seeking a Babe and brought
    Their love and worship to Him they sought,
    And made Him gifts, as the gifts we make
    With loving hearts for that Baby's sake.
      _Oh, come, come all, and join the ring!
      Let all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_




OUR KITTENS


    Our kittens have the softest fur,
    And the sweetest little purr,
    And such little velvet paws
    With such cunning little claws,
    And blue eyes, just like the sky!
    (_Must_ they turn green, by and by?)
    Two are striped like tigers, three
    Are as black as black can be,
    And they run so fast and play
    With their tails, and are so gay,
    Is it not a pity that
    Each must grow into a cat?




IN JULY


    Let us find a shady wady
      Pretty little brook;
    Let us have some candy handy,
      And a picture-book.

    There all day we'll stay and play and
      Never mind the heat,
    While the water gleaming, streaming,
      Ripples round our feet.

    And we'll gather curly pearly
      Mussel-shells while bright
    Frightened minnows darting, parting,
      Scurry out of sight.

    What if, what if,--heigho! my oh!--
      All the "ifs" were true,
    And the little fishes wishes,
      Now, what would you do?




A VALENTINE TO A LITTLE CHILD


    Dear heart, on this thrice-blessed day,
      An thou my sweetheart be,
    The rose of love shall bide alway
      Upon the red-rose tree.

    And in the garden of my heart
      So ceaselessly shall shine,
    The little birds will know thou art
      Mine own true Valentine.

    And I will bid them wing and sing
      To all good winds that blow,
    That to thy little feet they bring
      All blessings, even so.

    And o'er thy cradle I will coax,
      By every lucky charm,
    The friendship of the fairy folks
      To fold thee from all harm.

    So may they hover round thy head
      And gently thereupon,
    As doth the April sunshine, shed
      Most gracious benison.

    And all fair gifts that Fortune hath,
      I'll pray she promise these,
    And that she loose about thy path
      All sweet influences.

    Then here's a kiss! and there's a kiss!
      And kisses, one, two, three!
    I seal them in the folds of this,
      And speed them unto thee!




ZIP!


    When we went to drive the cows home
      Down the lane to-day,
    There was such a funny bunny
      Jumped across the way!

    All we saw as he ran past us,
      Faster than a quail,
    Was his snow-white fuzzy-wuzzy
      Little cotton tail!




A LITTLE CAROL


    Welcome, little Brother!
      Lowly, holy One!
    Hail thee, Virgin Mother,
    More than any other
      Blessed in thy Son!

    Child, since the poor manger
      Once thou didst not scorn,
    Rest thee, little Stranger,
    Folded from all danger,
      In our hearts new-born!

    Nestle thus, we pray thee,
      In our love's caress;
    Fain we are to pay thee
    Worship, and obey thee,
      Babe, and Prince no less!




SONG


    Honey-dew drippity-drops for a feast,
    Dreams of delight when the feasting has ceased,
                Poppy and rose,
                Drain them and doze;
    This is a song that the butterfly knows.




THE THREE CANDLES


    When the Christmas-tide drew nigh,
    On a shelf three candles bright,
    Two were red and one was white,
    Waited for who came to buy.

    Said the first one, "I shall be
    Chosen for a Christmas-tree!"
    Said the second, "I shall light
    Christ Jesus on His way to-night!"
    Then the third one sighed, "Ah me,
    I know not what my lot will be!"

    When the dark fell, bright and gay
    The first candle burned away,
    Red as all the berries red
    On the holly overhead,
    While the children in their glee
    Danced around the Christmas-tree.

    And the second, twinkling bright,
    Poured forth all its golden light
    Through a window decked with green
    Garlands and red ribbons' sheen,
    So the Christ-child when He came
    Might be guided by its flame.

    But the third one in the gloom
    Of a bare and cheerless room
    Softly burned where long had lain
    A poor little child in pain,
    And the baby in its bed
    By the light was comforted.

    When the Christ-child passed that night
    All three candles gave Him light,
    But the brightest was the spark
    By the baby in the dark.










THEY TOLD ME


They told me Pan was dead, but I
  Oft marvelled who it was that sang
Down the green valleys languidly
  Where the grey elder-thickets hang.

Sometimes I thought it was a bird
  My soul had charged with sorcery;
Sometimes it seemed my own heart heard
  Inland the sorrow of the sea.

But even where the primrose sets
  The seal of her pale loveliness,
I found amid the violets
  Tears of an antique bitterness.




SORCERY


"What voice is that I hear
  Crying across the pool?"
"It is the voice of Pan you hear,
Crying his sorceries shrill and clear,
  In the twilight dim and cool."

 "What song is it he sings,
  Echoing from afar;
While the sweet swallow bends her wings,
Filling the air with twitterings,
  Beneath the brightening star?"

The woodman answered me,
  His faggot on his back:--
"Seek not the face of Pan to see;
Flee from his clear note summoning thee
  To darkness deep and black!"

 "He dwells in thickest shade,
  Piping his notes forlorn
Of sorrow never to be allayed;
Turn from his coverts sad
  Of twilight unto morn!"

The woodman passed away
  Along the forest path;
His ax shone keen and grey
In the last beams of day:
  And all was still as death:--

Only Pan singing sweet
  Out of Earth's fragrant shade;
I dreamed his eyes to meet,
And found but shadow laid
  Before my tired feet.

Comes no more dawn to me,
  Nor bird of open skies.
Only his woods' deep gloom I see
  Till, at the end of all, shall rise,
Afar and tranquilly,
Death's stretching sea.




THE CHILDREN OF STARE


  Winter is fallen early
  On the house of Stare;
Birds in reverberating flocks
  Haunt its ancestral box;
  Bright are the plenteous berries
  In clusters in the air.

  Still is the fountain's music,
  The dark pool icy still,
Whereupon a small and sanguine sun
  Floats in a mirror on,
  Into a West of crimson,
  From a South of daffodil.

  'Tis strange to see young children
  In such a wintry house;
Like rabbits' on the frozen snow
  Their tell-tale footprints go;
  Their laughter rings like timbrels
  'Neath evening ominous:

  Their small and heightened faces
  Like wine-red winter buds;
Their frolic bodies gentle as
  Flakes in the air that pass,
  Frail as the twirling petal
  From the briar of the woods.

  Above them silence lours,
  Still as an arctic sea;
Light fails; night falls; the wintry moon
  Glitters; the crocus soon
  Will ope grey and distracted
  On earth's austerity:

  Thick mystery, wild peril,
  Law like an iron rod:--
Yet sport they on in Spring's attire,
  Each with his tiny fire
  Blown to a core of ardour
  By the awful breath of God.




AGE


This ugly old crone--
Every beauty she had
When a maid, when a maid.
Her beautiful eyes,
Too youthful, too wise,
Seemed ever to come
To so lightless a home,
Cold and dull as a stone.
And her cheeks--who would guess
Cheeks cadaverous as this
Once with colours were gay
As the flower on its spray?
Who would ever believe
Aught could bring one to grieve
So much as to make
Lips bent for love's sake
So thin and so grey?
O Youth, come away!
As she asks in her lone,
This old, desolate crone.
She loves us no more;
She is too old to care
For the charms that of yore
Made her body so fair.
Past repining, past care,
She lives but to bear
One or two fleeting years
Earth's indifference: her tears
Have lost now their heat;
Her hands and her feet
Now shake but to be
Shed as leaves from a tree;
And her poor heart beats on
Like a sea--the storm gone.




THE GLIMPSE


Art thou asleep? or have thy wings
Wearied of my unchanging skies?
Or, haply, is it fading dreams
    Are in my eyes?

Not even an echo in my heart
Tells me the courts thy feet trod last,
Bare as a leafless wood it is,
    The summer past.

My inmost mind is like a book
The reader dulls with lassitude,
Wherein the same old lovely words
    Sound poor and rude.

Yet through this vapid surface, I
Seem to see old-time deeps; I see,
Past the dark painting of the hour,
    Life's ecstasy.

Only a moment; as when day
Is set, and in the shade of night,
Through all the clouds that compassed her,
    Stoops into sight

Pale, changeless, everlasting Dian,
Gleams on the prone Endymion,
Troubles the dulness of his dreams:
    And then is gone.




REMEMBRANCE


The sky was like a waterdrop
  In shadow of a thorn,
Clear, tranquil, beautiful,
  Dark, forlorn.

Lightning along its margin ran;
  A rumour of the sea
Rose in profundity and sank
  Into infinity.

Lofty and few the elms, the stars
  In the vast boughs most bright;
I stood a dreamer in a dream
  In the unstirring night.

Not wonder, worship, not even peace
  Seemed in my heart to be:
Only the memory of one,
  Of all most dead to me.




TREACHERY


She had amid her ringlets bound
Green leaves to rival their dark hue;
How could such locks with beauty bound
      Dry up their dew,
    Wither them through and through?

She had within her dark eyes lit
Sweet fires to burn all doubt away;
Yet did those fires, in darkness lit,
      Burn but a day,
    Not even till twilight stay.

She had within a dusk of words
A vow in simple splendour set;
How, in the memory of such words,
      Could she forget
    That vow--the soul of it?




IN VAIN


I knocked upon thy door ajar,
While yet the woods with buds were grey;
Nought but a little child I heard
    Warbling at break of day.

I knocked when June had lured her rose
To mask the sharpness of its thorn;
Knocked yet again, heard only yet
    Thee singing of the morn.

The frail convolvulus had wreathed
Its cup, but the faint flush of eve
Lingered upon thy Western wall;
    Thou hadst no word to give.

Once yet I came; the winter stars
Above thy house wheeled wildly bright;
Footsore I stood before thy door--
    Wide open into night.




THE MIRACLE


Who beckons the green ivy up
  Its solitary tower of stone?
What spirit lures the bindweed's cup
      Unfaltering on?
Calls even the starry lichen to climb
By agelong inches endless Time?

Who bids the hollyhock uplift
  Her rod of fast-sealed buds on high;
Fling wide her petals--silent, swift,
      Lovely to the sky?
Since as she kindled, so she will fade,
Flower above flower in squalor laid.

Ever the heavy billow rears
  All its sea-length in green, hushed wall;
But totters as the shore it nears,
      Foams to its fall;
Where was its mark? on what vain quest
Rose that great water from its rest?

So creeps ambition on; so climb
  Man's vaunting thoughts. He, set on high,
Forgets his birth, small space, brief time,
      That he shall die;
Dreams blindly in his dark, still air;
Consumes his strength; strips himself bare;

Rejects delight, ease, pleasure, hope,
  Seeking in vain, but seeking yet,
Past earthly promise, earthly scope,
      On one aim set:
As if, like Chaucer's child, he thought
All but "O Alma!" nought.




KEEP INNOCENCY


Like an old battle, youth is wild
With bugle and spear, and counter cry,
Fanfare and drummery, yet a child
Dreaming of that sweet chivalry,
The piercing terror cannot see.

He, with a mild and serious eye
Along the azure of the years,
Sees the sweet pomp sweep hurtling by;
But he sees not death's blood and tears,
Sees not the plunging of the spears.

And all the strident horror of
Horse and rider, in red defeat,
Is only music fine enough
To lull him into slumber sweet
In fields where ewe and lambkin bleat.

O, if with such simplicity
Himself take arms and suffer war;
With beams his targe shall gilded be,
Though in the thickening gloom be far
The steadfast light of any star!

Though hoarse War's eagle on him perch,
Quickened with guilty lightnings--there
It shall in vain for terror search,
Where a child's eyes beneath bloody hair
Gaze purely through the dingy air.

And when the wheeling rout is spent,
Though in the heaps of slain he lie;
Or lonely in his last content;
Quenchless shall burn in secrecy
The flame Death knows his victors by.




THE PHANTOM


Wilt thou never come again,
Beauteous one?
Yet the woods are green and dim,
Yet the birds' deluding cry
Echoes in the hollow sky,
Yet the falling waters brim
The clear pool which thou wast fain
To paint thy lovely cheek upon,
    Beauteous one!

I may see the thorny rose
    Stir and wake
The dark dewdrop on her gold;
But thy secret will she keep
Half-divulged--yet all untold,
Since a child's heart woke from sleep.

The faltering sunbeam fades and goes;
The night-bird whistles in the brake;
    The willows quake;
Utter darkness walls; the wind
    Sighs no more.
Yet it seems the silence yearns
But to catch thy fleeting foot;
Yet the wandering glowworm burns
Lest her lamp should light thee not--
Thee whom I shall never find;
Though thy shadow lean before,
Thou thyself return'st no more--
    Never more.

All the world's woods, tree o'er tree,
    Come to nought.
Birds, flowers, beasts, how transient they,
Angels of a flying day.
Love is quenched; dreams drown in sleep;
Ruin nods along the deep:
Only thou immortally
    Hauntest on
This poor earth in Time's flux caught;
Hauntest on, pursued, unwon,
Phantom child of memory,
    Beauteous one!




VOICES


Who is it calling by the darkened river
  Where the moss lies smooth and deep,
And the dark trees lean unmoving arms,
  Silent and vague in sleep,
And the bright-heeled constellations pass
  In splendour through the gloom;
Who is it calling o'er the darkened river
      In music, "Come!"?

Who is it wandering in the summer meadows
  Where the children stoop and play
In the green faint-scented flowers, spinning
  The guileless hours away?
Who touches their bright hair? who puts
  A wind-shell to each cheek,
Whispering betwixt its breathing silences,
      "Seek! seek!"?

Who is it watching in the gathering twilight
  When the curfew bird hath flown
On eager wings, from song to silence,
  To its darkened nest alone?
Who takes for brightening eyes the stars,
  For locks the still moonbeam,
Sighs through the dews of evening peacefully
      Falling, "Dream!"?




THULE


If thou art sweet as they are sad
  Who on the shores of Time's salt sea
Watch on the dim horizon fade
  Ships bearing love to night and thee;

If past all beacons Hope hath lit
  In the dark wanderings of the deep
They who unwilling traverse it
  Dream not till dawn unseal their sleep;

Ah, cease not in thy winds to mock
  Us, who yet wake, but cannot see
Thy distant shores; who at each shock
  Of the waves' onset faint for thee!




THE BIRTHNIGHT: TO F.


Dearest, it was a night
That in its darkness rocked Orion's stars;
A sighing wind ran faintly white
Along the willows, and the cedar boughs
Laid their wide hands in stealthy peace across
The starry silence of their antique moss:
No sound save rushing air
Cold, yet all sweet with Spring,
And in thy mother's arms, couched weeping there,
    Thou, lovely thing.




THE DEATH-DREAM


Who, now, put dreams into thy slumbering mind?
Who, with bright Fear's lean taper, crossed a hand
Athwart its beam, and stooping, truth maligned,
Spake so thy spirit speech should understand,
And with a dread "He's dead!" awaked a peal
Of frenzied bells along the vacant ways
Of thy poor earthly heart; waked thee to steal,
Like dawn distraught upon unhappy days,
To prove nought, nothing? Was it Time's large voice
Out of the inscrutable future whispered so?
Or but the horror of a little noise
Earth wakes at dead of night? Or does Love know
When his sweet wings weary and droop, and even
In sleep cries audibly a shrill remorse?
Or, haply, was it I who out of dream
Stole but a little where shadows course,
Called back to thee across the eternal stream?




"WHERE IS THY VICTORY?"


None, none can tell where I shall be
When the unclean earth covers me;
Only in surety if thou cry
Where my perplexed ashes lie,
Know, 'tis but death's necessity
That keeps my tongue from answering thee.

Even if no more my shadow may
Lean for a moment in thy day;
No more the whole earth lighten, as if,
Thou near, it had nought else to give:
Surely 'tis but Heaven's strategy
To prove death immortality.

Yet should I sleep--and no more dream,
Sad would the last awakening seem,
If my cold heart, with love once hot,
Had thee in sleep remembered not:
How could I wake to find that I
Had slept alone, yet easefully?

Or should in sleep glad visions come:
Sick, in an alien land, for home
Would be my eyes in their bright beam;
Awake, we know 'tis not a dream;
Asleep, some devil in the mind
Might truest thoughts with false enwind.

Life is a mockery if death
Have the least power men say it hath.
As to a hound that mewing waits,
Death opens, and shuts to, his gates;
Else even dry bones might rise and say,--
"'Tis _ye_ are dead and laid away."

Innocent children out of nought
Build up a universe of thought,
And out of silence fashion Heaven:
So, dear, is this poor dying even,
Seeing thou shall be touched, heard, seen,
Better than when dust stood between.




FOREBODING


Thou canst not see him standing by--
Time--with a poppied hand
Stealing thy youth's simplicity,
Even as falls unceasingly
    His waning sand.

He will pluck thy childish roses, as
    Summer from her bush
Strips all the loveliness that was;
Even to the silence evening has
    Thy laughter hush.

Thy locks too faint for earthly gold,
    The meekness of thine eyes,
He will darken and dim, and to his fold
Drive, 'gainst the night, thy stainless, old
    Innocencies;

Thy simple words confuse and mar,
    Thy tenderest thoughts delude,
Draw a long cloud athwart thy star,
Still with loud timbrels heaven's far
    Faint interlude.

Thou canst not see; I see, dearest;
    O, then, yet patient be,
Though love refuse thy heart all rest,
Though even love wax angry, lest
    Love should lose _thee_?




VAIN FINDING


Ever before my face there went
  Betwixt earth's buds and me
A beauty beyond earth's content,
  A hope--half memory:
Till in the woods one evening--
  Ah! eyes as dark as they,
Fastened on mine unwontedly,
  Grey, and dear heart, how grey!




NAPOLEON


"What is the world, O soldiers?
It is I:
I, this incessant snow,
  This northern sky;
Soldiers, this solitude
  Through which we go
      Is I."




ENGLAND


No lovelier hills than thine have laid
  My tired thoughts to rest:
No peace of lovelier valleys made
  Like peace within my breast.

Thine are the woods whereto my soul,
  Out of the noontide beam,
Flees for a refuge green and cool
  And tranquil as a dream.

Thy breaking seas like trumpets peal;
  Thy clouds--how oft have I
Watched their bright towers of silence steal
  Into infinity!

My heart within me faults to roam
  In thought even far from thee:
Thine be the grave whereto I come,
  And thine my darkness be.




TRUCE


Far inland here Death's pinions mocked the roar
    Of English seas;
We sleep to wake no more,
    Hushed, and at ease;
Till sound a trump, shore on to echoing shore,
Rouse from a peace, unwonted then to war,
    Us and our enemies.




EVENING


When twilight darkens, and one by one,
The sweet birds to their nests have gone;
When to green banks the glow-worms bring
Pale lamps to brighten evening;
Then stirs in his thick sleep the owl
Through the dewy air to prowl.

Hawking the meadows swiftly he flits,
While the small mouse atrembling sits
With tiny eye of fear upcast
Until his brooding shape be past,
Hiding her where the moonbeams beat,
Casting black shadows in the wheat.

Now all is still: the field-man is
Lapped deep in slumbering silentness.
Not a leaf stirs, but clouds on high
Pass in dim flocks across the sky,
Puffed by a breeze too light to move
Aught but these wakeful sheep above.

O what an arch of light now spans
These fields by night no longer Man's!
Their ancient Master is abroad,
Walking beneath the moonlight cold:
His presence is the stillness, He
Fills earth with wonder and mystery.




NIGHT


All from the light of the sweet moon
    Tired men lie now abed;
Actionless, full of visions, soon
    Vanishing, soon sped.

The starry night aflock with beams
    Of crystal light scarce stirs:
Only its birds--the cocks, the streams,
    Call 'neath heaven's wanderers.

All silent; all hearts still;
    Love, cunning, fire fallen low:
When faint morn straying on the hill
    Sighs, and his soft airs flow.




THE UNIVERSE


I heard a little child beneath the stars
    Talk as he ran along
To some sweet riddle in his mind that seemed
    A-tiptoe into song.

In his dark eyes lay a wild universe,--
    Wild forests, peaks, and crests;
Angels and fairies, giants, wolves and he
    Were that world's only guests.

Elsewhere was home and mother, his warm bed:--
    Now, only God alone
Could, armed with all His power and wisdom, make
    Earths richer than his own.

O Man!--thy dreams, thy passions, hopes, desires!--
    He in his pity keep
A homely bed where love may lull a child's
    Fond Universe asleep!




GLORIA MUNDI


Upon a bank, easeless with knobs of gold,
  Beneath a canopy of noonday smoke,
I saw a measureless Beast, morose and bold,
  With eyes like one from filthy dreams awoke,
Who stares upon the daylight in despair
For very terror of the nothing there.

This beast in one flat hand clutched vulture-wise
  A glittering image of itself in jet,
And with the other groped about its eyes
  To drive away the dreams that pestered it;
And never ceased its coils to toss and beat
The mire encumbering its feeble feet.

Sharp was its hunger, though continually
  It seemed a cud of stones to ruminate,
And often like a dog let glittering lie
  This meatless fare, its foolish gaze to sate;
Once more convulsively to stoop its jaw,
Or seize the morsel with an envious paw.

Indeed, it seemed a hidden enemy
  Must lurk within the clouds above that bank,
It strained so wildly its pale, stubborn eye,
  To pierce its own foul vapours dim and dank;
Till, wearied out, it raved in wrath and foam,
Daring that Nought Invisible to come.

Ay, and it seemed some strange delight to find
  In this unmeaning din, till, suddenly,
As if it heard a rumour on the wind,
  Or far away its freer children cry,
Lifting its face made-quiet, there it stayed,
Till died the echo its own rage had made.

That place alone was barren where it lay;
  Flowers bloomed beyond, utterly sweet and fair;
And even its own dull heart might think to stay
  In livelong thirst of a clear river there,
Flowing from unseen hills to unheard seas,
Through a still vale of yew and almond trees.

And then I spied in the lush green below
  Its tortured belly, One, like silver, pale,
With fingers closed upon a rope of straw,
  That bound the Beast, squat neck to hoary tail;
Lonely in all that verdure faint and deep,
He watched the monster as a shepherd sheep.

I marvelled at the power, strength, and rage
  Of this poor creature in such slavery bound;
Tettered with worms of fear; forlorn with age;
  Its blue wing-stumps stretched helpless on the ground;
While twilight faded into darkness deep,
And he who watched it piped its pangs asleep.




IDLENESS


I saw old Idleness, fat, with great cheeks
Puffed to the huge circumference of a sigh,
But past all tinge of apples long ago.
His boyish fingers twiddled up and down
The filthy remnant of a cup of physic
That thicked in odour all the while he stayed.
His eyes were sad as fishes that swim up
And stare upon an element not theirs
Through a thin skin of shrewish water, then
Turn on a languid fin, and dip down, down,
Into unplumbed, vast, oozy deeps of dream.
His stomach was his master, and proclaimed it;
And never were such meagre puppets made
The slaves of such a tyrant, as his thoughts
Of that obese epitome of ills.
Trussed up he sat, the mockery of himself;
And when upon the wan green of his eye
I marked the gathering lustre of a tear,
Thought I myself must weep, until I caught
A grey, smug smile of satisfaction smirch
His pallid features at his misery.
And laugh did I, to see the little snares
He had set for pests to vex him: his great feet
Prisoned in greater boots; so narrow a stool
To seat such elephantine parts as his;
Ay, and the book he read, a Hebrew Bible;
And, to incite a gross and backward wit,
An old, crabbed, wormed, Greek dictionary; and
A foxy Ovid bound in dappled calf.




GOLIATH


Still as a mountain with dark pines and sun
He stood between the armies, and his shout
Rolled from the empyrean above the host:
"Bid any little flea ye have come forth,
And wince at death upon my finger-nail!"
He turned his large-boned face; and all his steel
Tossed into beams the lustre of the noon;
And all the shaggy horror of his locks
Rustled like locusts in a field of corn.
The meagre pupil of his shameless eye
Moved like a cormorant over a glassy sea.
He stretched his limbs, and laughed into the air,
To feel the groaning sinews of his breast,
And the long gush of his swollen arteries pause:
And, nodding, wheeled, towering in all his height.
Then, like a wind that hushes, gazed and saw
Down, down, far down upon the untroubled green
A shepherd-boy that swung a little sling.
Goliath shut his lids to drive that mote,
Which vexed the eastern azure of his eye,
Out of his vision; and stared down again.
Yet stood the youth there, ruddy in the flare
Of his vast shield, nor spake, nor quailed, gazed up,
As one might scan a mountain to be scaled.
Then, as it were, a voice unearthly still
Cried in the cavern of his bristling ear,
"His name is Death!" ... And, like the flush
That dyes Sahara to its lifeless verge,
His brows' bright brass flamed into sudden crimson;
And his great spear leapt upward, lightning-like,
Shaking a dreadful thunder in the air;
Spun betwixt earth and sky, bright as a berg
That hoards the sunlight in a myriad spires,
Crashed: and struck echo through an army's heart.
Then paused Goliath, and stared down again.
And fleet-foot Fear from rolling orbs perceived
Steadfast, unharmed, a stooping shepherd-boy
Frowning upon the target of his face.
And wrath tossed suddenly up once more his hand;
And a deep groan grieved all his strength in him.
He breathed; and, lost in dazzling darkness, prayed--
Besought his reins, his gloating gods, his youth:
And turned to smite what he no more could see.
Then sped the singing pebble-messenger,
The chosen of the Lord from Israel's brooks,
Fleet to its mark, and hollowed a light path
Down to the appalling Babel of his brain.
And like the smoke of dreaming Souffrière
Dust rose in cloud, spread wide, slow silted down
Softly all softly on his armour's blaze





                                   









MACBETH


Rose, like dim battlements, the hills and reared
Steep crags into the fading primrose sky;
But in the desolate valleys fell small rain,
Mingled with drifting cloud. I saw one come,
Like the fierce passion of that vacant place,
His face turned glittering to the evening sky;
His eyes, like grey despair, fixed satelessly
On the still, rainy turrets of the storm;
And all his armour in a haze of blue.
He held no sword, bare was his hand and clenched,
As if to hide the inextinguishable blood
Murder had painted there. And his wild mouth
Seemed spouting echoes of deluded thoughts.
Around his head, like vipers all distort,
His locks shook, heavy-laden, at each stride.
If fire may burn invisible to the eye;
O, if despair strive everlastingly;
Then haunted here the creature of despair,
Fanning and fanning flame to lick upon
A soul still childish in a blackened hell.




BANQUO


What dost thou here far from thy native place?
What piercing influences of heaven have stirred
Thy heart's last mansion all-corruptible to wake,
To move, and in the sweets of wine and fire
Sit tempting madness with unholy eyes?
Begone, thou shuddering, pale anomaly!
The dark presses without on yew and thorn;
Stoops now the owl upon her lonely quest;
The pomp runs high here, and our beauteous women
Seek no cold witness--O, let murder cry,
Too shrill for human ear, only to God.
Come not in power to wreak so wild a vengeance!
Thou knowest not now the limit of man's heart;
He is beyond thy knowledge. Gaze not then,
Horror enthroned lit with insanest light!




MERCUTIO


Along an avenue of almond-trees
Came three girls chattering of their sweethearts three.
And lo! Mercutio, with Byronic ease,
Out of his philosophic eye cast all
A mere flowered twig of thought, whereat--
Three hearts fell still as when an air dies out
And Venus falters lonely o'er the sea.
But when within the further mist of bloom
His step and form were hid, the smooth child Ann
Said, "La, and what eyes he had!" and Lucy said,
"How sad a gentleman!" and Katherine,
"I wonder, now, what mischief he was at."
And these three also April hid away,
Leaving the Spring faint with Mercutio.




JULIET'S NURSE


In old-world nursery vacant now of children,
With posied walls, familiar, fair, demure,
And facing southward o'er romantic streets,
Sits yet and gossips winter's dark away
One gloomy, vast, glossy, and wise, and sly:
And at her side a cherried country cousin.
Her tongue claps ever like a ram's sweet bell;
There's not a name but calls a tale to mind--
Some marrowy patty of farce or melodram;
There's not a soldier but hath babes in view;
There's not on earth what minds not of the midwife:
"O, widowhood that left me still espoused!"
Beauty she sighs o'er, and she sighs o'er gold;
Gold will buy all things, even a sweet husband,
Else only Heaven is left and--farewell youth!
Yet, strangely, in that money-haunted head,
The sad, gemmed crucifix and incense blue
Is childhood once again. Her memory
Is like an ant-hill which a twig disturbs,
But twig stilled never. And to see her face,
Broad with sleek homely beams; her babied hands,
Ever like 'lighting doves, and her small eyes--
Blue wells a-twinkle, arch and lewd and pious--
To darken all sudden into Stygian gloom,
And paint disaster with uplifted whites,
Is life's epitome. She prates and prates--
A waterbrook of words o'er twelve small pebbles.
And when she dies--some grey, long, summer evening,
When the bird shouts of childhood through the dusk,
'Neath night's faint tapers--then her body shall
Lie stiff with silks of sixty thrifty years.




IAGO


A dark lean face, a narrow, slanting eye,
Whose deeps of blackness one pale taper's beam
Haunts with a fitting madness of desire;
A heart whose cinder at the breath of passion
Glows to a momentary core of heat
Almost beyond indifference to endure:
So parched Iago frets his life away.
His scorn works ever in a brain whose wit
This world hath fools too many and gross to seek.
Ever to live incredibly alone,
Masked, shivering, deadly, with a simple Moor
Of idiot gravity, and one pale flower
Whose chill would quench in everlasting peace
His soul's unmeasured flame--O paradox!
Might he but learn the trick!--to wear her heart
One fragile hour of heedless innocence,
And then, farewell, and the incessant grave.
"O fool! O villain!"--'tis the shuttlecock
Wit never leaves at rest. It is his fate
To be a needle in a world of hay,
Where honour is the flattery of the fool;
Sin, a tame bauble; lies, a tiresome jest;
Virtue, a silly, whitewashed block of wood
For words to fell. Ah! but the secret lacking,
The secret of the child, the bird, the night,
Faded, flouted, bespattered, in days so far
Hate cannot bitter them, nor wrath deny;
Else were this Desdemona.... Why!
Woman a harlot is, and life a nest
Fouled by long ages of forked fools. And God--
Iago deals not with a tale so dull:
To have made the world! Fie on thee, Artisan!




IMOGEN


Even she too dead! all languor on her brow,
All mute humanity's last simpleness,--
And yet the roses in her cheeks unfallen!
Can death haunt silence with a silver sound?
Can death, that hushes all music to a close,
Pluck one sweet wire scarce-audible that trembles,
As if a little child, called Purity,
Sang heedlessly on of his dear Imogen?
Surely if some young flowers of Spring were put
Into the tender hollow of her heart,
'Twould faintly answer, trembling in their petals.
Poise but a wild bird's feather, it will stir
On lips that even in silence wear the badge
Only of truth. Let but a cricket wake,
And sing of home, and bid her lids unseal
The unspeakable hospitality of her eyes.
O childless soul--call once her husband's name!
And even if indeed from these green hills
Of England, far, her spirit flits forlorn,
Back to its youthful mansion it will turn,
Back to the floods of sorrow these sweet locks
Yet heavy bear in drops; and Night shall see
Unwearying as her stars still Imogen,
Pausing 'twixt death and life on one hushed word.




POLONIUS


There haunts in Time's bare house an active ghost,
Enamoured of his name, Polonius.
He moves small fingers much, and all his speech
Is like a sampler of precisest words,
Set in the pattern of a simpleton.
His mirth floats eerily down chill corridors;
His sigh--it is a sound that loves a keyhole;
His tenderness a faint court-tarnished thing;
His wisdom prates as from a wicker cage;
His very belly is a pompous nought;
His eye a page that hath forgot his errand.
Yet in his brain--his spiritual brain--
Lies hid a child's demure, small, silver whistle
Which, to his horror, God blows, unawares,
And sets men staring. It is sad to think,
Might he but don indeed thin flesh and blood,
And pace important to Law's inmost room,
He would see, much marvelling, one immensely wise,
Named Bacon, who, at sound of his youth's step,
Would turn and call him Cousin--for the likeness.




OPHELIA


There runs a crisscross pattern of small leaves
Espalier, in a fading summer air,
And there Ophelia walks, an azure flower,
Whom wind, and snowflakes, and the sudden rain
Of love's wild skies have purified to heaven.
There is a beauty past all weeping now
In that sweet, crooked mouth, that vacant smile;
Only a lonely grey in those mad eyes,
Which never on earth shall learn their loneliness.
And when amid startled birds she sings lament,
Mocking in hope the long voice of the stream,
It seems her heart's lute hath a broken string.
Ivy she hath, that to old ruin clings;
And rosemary, that sees remembrance fade;
And pansies, deeper than the gloom of dreams;
But ah! if utterable, would this earth
Remain the base, unreal thing it is?
Better be out of sight of peering eyes;
Out--out of hearing of all-useless words,
Spoken of tedious tongues in heedless ears.
And lest, at last, the world should learn heart-secrets;
Lest that sweet wolf from some dim thicket steal;
Better the glassy horror of the stream.




HAMLET


Umbrageous cedars murmuring symphonies
Stooped in late twilight o'er dark Denmark's Prince:
He sat, his eyes companioned with dream--
Lustrous large eyes that held the world in view
As some entrancèd child's a puppet show.
Darkness gave birth to the all-trembling stars,
And a far roar of long-drawn cataracts,
Flooding immeasurable night with sound.
He sat so still, his very thoughts took wing,
And, lightest Ariels, the stillness haunted
With midge-like measures; but, at last, even they
Sank 'neath the influences of his night.
The sweet dust shed faint perfume in the gloom;
Through all wild space the stars' bright arrows fell
On the lone Prince--the troubled son of man--
On Time's dark waters in unearthly trouble:
Then, as the roar increased, and one fair tower
Of cloud took sky and stars with majesty,
He rose, his face a parchment of old age,
Sorrow hath scribbled o'er, and o'er, and o'er.

                                   




                                   




THE HAPPY ENCOUNTER


I saw sweet Poetry turn troubled eyes
  On shaggy Science nosing in the grass,
  For by that way poor Poetry must pass
On her long pilgrimage to Paradise.
He snuffled, grunted, squealed; perplexed by flies,
  Parched, weatherworn, and near of sight, alas,
  From peering close where very little was
In dens secluded from the open skies.

But Poetry in bravery went down,
  And called his name, soft, clear, and fearlessly;
Stooped low, and stroked his muzzle overgrown;
Refreshed his drought with dew; wiped pure and free
  His eyes: and lo! laughed loud for joy to see
In those grey deeps the azure of her own.




APRIL


Come, then, with showers; I love thy cloudy face
  Gilded with splendour of the sunbeam thro'
  The heedless glory of thy locks. I know
The arch, sweet languor of thy fleeting grace,
The windy lovebeams of thy dwelling-place,
  Thy dim dells where in azure bluebells blow,
  The brimming rivers where thy lightnings go
Harmless and full and swift from race to race.

Thou takest all young hearts captive with thine eyes;
  At rumour of thee the tongues of children ring
Louder than bees; the golden poplars rise
  Like trumps of peace; and birds, on homeward wing,
Fly mocking echoes shrill along the skies,
  Above the waves' grave diapasoning.




SEA-MAGIC

TO R.I.


My heart faints in me for the distant sea.
  The roar of London is the roar of ire
  The lion utters in his old desire
For Libya out of dim captivity.
The long bright silver of Cheapside I see,
  Her gilded weathercocks on roof and spire
  Exulting eastward in the western fire;
All things recall one heart-sick memory:--

Ever the rustle of the advancing foam,
  The surges' desolate thunder, and the cry
  As of some lone babe in the whispering sky;
Ever I peer into the restless gloom
  To where a ship clad dim and loftily
Looms steadfast in the wonder of her home.




THE MARKET-PLACE


My mind is like a clamorous market-place.
  All day in wind, rain, sun, its babel wells;
  Voice answering to voice in tumult swells.
Chaffering and laughing, pushing for a place,
My thoughts haste on, gay, strange, poor, simple, base;
  This one buys dust, and that a bauble sells:
  But none to any scrutiny hints or tells
The haunting secrets hidden in each sad face.

Dies down the clamour when the dark draws near;
  Strange looms the earth in twilight of the West,
Lonely with one sweet star serene and clear,
  Dwelling, when all this place is hushed to rest,
  On vacant stall, gold, refuse, worst and best,
Abandoned utterly in haste and fear.




ANATOMY


By chance my fingers, resting on my face,
  Stayed suddenly where in its orbit shone
  The lamp of all things beautiful; then on,
Following more heedfully, did softly trace
Each arch and prominence and hollow place
  That shall revealed be when all else is gone--
  Warmth, colour, roundness--to oblivion,
And nothing left but darkness and disgrace.

Life like a moment passed seemed then to be;
  A transient dream this raiment that it wore;
While spelled my hand out its mortality
  Made certain all that had seemed doubt before:
Proved--O how vaguely, yet how lucidly!--
  How much death does; and yet can do no more.




EVEN IN THE GRAVE


I laid my inventory at the hand
  Of Death, who in his gloomy arbour sate;
  And while he conned it, sweet and desolate
I heard Love singing in that quiet land.
He read the record even to the end--
  The heedless, livelong injuries of Fate,
  The burden of foe, the burden of love and hate;
The wounds of foe, the bitter wounds of friend:

All, all, he read, ay, even the indifference,
  The vain talk, vainer silence, hope and dream.
He questioned me: "What seek'st thou then instead?"
  I bowed my face in the pale evening gleam.
Then gazed he on me with strange innocence:
"Even in the grave thou wilt have thyself," he said.




BRIGHT LIFE


"Come now," I said, "put off these webs of death,
  Distract this leaden yearning of thine eyes
  From lichened banks of peace, sad mysteries
Of dust fallen-in where passed the flitting breath:
Turn thy sick thoughts from him that slumbereth
  In mouldered linen to the living skies,
  The sun's bright-clouded principalities,
The salt deliciousness the sea-breeze hath!

"Lay thy warm hand on earth's cold clods and think
  What exquisite greenness sprouts from these to grace
The moving fields of summer; on the brink
  Of archèd waves the sea-horizon trace,
Whence wheels night's galaxy; and in silence sink
  The pride in rapture of life's dwelling-place!"




HUMANITY


"Ever exulting in thyself, on fire
  To flaunt the purple of the Universe,
  To strut and strut, and thy great part rehearse;
Ever the slave of every proud desire;
Come now a little down where sports thy sire;
  Choose thy small better from thy abounding worse;
  Prove thou thy lordship who hadst dust for nurse,
And for thy swaddling the primeval mire!"

Then stooped our Manhood nearer, deep and still,
  As from earth's mountains an unvoyaged sea,
Hushed my faint voice in its great peace until
  It seemed but a bird's cry in eternity;
And in its future loomed the undreamable,
  And in its past slept simple men like me.




VIRTUE


Her breast is cold; her hands how faint and wan!
  And the deep wonder of her starry eyes
  Seemingly lost in cloudless Paradise,
And all earth's sorrow out of memory gone.
Yet sings her clear voice unrelenting on
  Of loveliest impossibilities;
  Though echo only answer her with sighs
Of effort wasted and delights foregone.

Spent, baffled, 'wildered, hated and despised,
  Her straggling warriors hasten to defeat;
By wounds distracted, and by night surprised,
  Fall where death's darkness and oblivion meet:
Yet, yet: O breast how cold! O hope how far!
Grant my son's ashes lie where these men's are!





REVERIE


Bring not bright candles, for his eyes
  In twilight have sweet company;
Bring not bright candles, else they fly--
  His phantoms fly--
Gazing aggrieved on thee!

Bring not bright candles, startle not
  The phantoms of a vacant room,
Flocking above a child that dreams--
  Deep, deep in dreams,--
Hid, in the gathering gloom!

Bring not bright candles to those eyes
  That between earth and stars descry,
Lovelier for the shadows there,
  Children of air,
Palaces in the sky!




THE MASSACRE


The shadow of a poplar tree
  Lay in that lake of sun,
As I with my little sword went in--
  Against a thousand, one.

Haughty and infinitely armed,
  Insolent in their wrath,
Plumed high with purple plumes they held
  The narrow meadow path.

The air was sultry; all was still;
  The sun like flashing glass;
And snip-snap my light-whispering steel
  In arcs of light did pass.

Lightly and dull fell each proud head,
  Spiked keen without avail,
Till swam my uncontented blade
  With ichor green and pale.

And silence fell: the rushing sun
  Stood still in paths of heat,
Gazing in waves of horror on
  The dead about my feet.

Never a whir of wing, no bee
  Stirred o'er the shameful slain;
Nought but a thirsty wasp crept in,
  Stooped, and came out again.

The very air trembled in fear;
  Eclipsing shadow seemed
Rising in crimson waves of gloom--
  On one who dreamed.




ECHO


"Who called?" I said, and the words
  Through the whispering glades,
Hither, thither, baffled the birds--
  "Who called? Who called?"

The leafy boughs on high
  Hissed in the sun;
The dark air carried my cry
  Faintingly on:

Eyes in the green, in the shade,
  In the motionless brake,
Voices that said what I said,
  For mockery's sake:

"Who cares?" I bawled through my tears;
  The wind fell low:
In the silence, "Who cares? who cares?"
  Wailed to and fro.




FEAR


I know where lurk
The eyes of Fear;
I, I alone,
Where shadowy-clear,
Watching for me,
Lurks Fear.

'Tis ever still
And dark, despite
All singing and
All candlelight,
'Tis ever cold,
And night.

He touches me;
Says quietly,
"Stir not, nor whisper,
I am nigh;
Walk noiseless on,
I am by!"

He drives me
As a dog a sheep;
Like a cold stone
I cannot weep.
He lifts me
Hot from sleep

In marble hands
To where on high
The jewelled horror
Of his eye
Dares me to struggle
Or cry.

No breast wherein
To chase away
That watchful shape!
Vain, vain to say
"Haunt not with night
The Day!"




THE MERMAIDS


Sand, sand; hills of sand;
  And the wind where nothing is
Green and sweet of the land;
  No grass, no trees,
  No bird, no butterfly,
But hills, hills of sand,
  And a burning sky.

Sea, sea, mounds of the sea,
  Hollow, and dark, and blue,
Flashing incessantly
  The whole sea through;
  No flower, no jutting root,
Only the floor of the sea,
  With foam afloat.

Blow, blow, winding shells;
  And the watery fish,
Deaf to the hidden bells,
  In the water splash;
No streaming gold, no eyes,
  Watching along the waves,
But far-blown shells, faint bells,
  From the darkling caves.




MYSELF


There is a garden, grey
  With mists of autumntide;
Under the giant boughs,
  Stretched green on every side,

Along the lonely paths,
  A little child like me,
With face, with hands, like mine,
  Plays ever silently;

On, on, quite silently,
  When I am there alone,
Turns not his head; lifts not his eyes;
  Heeds not as he plays on.

After the birds are flown
  From singing in the trees,
When all is grey, all silent,
  Voices, and winds, and bees;

And I am there alone:
  Forlornly, silently,
Plays in the evening garden
  Myself with me.




AUTUMN


There is a wind where the rose was;
Cold rain where sweet grass was;
  And clouds like sheep
  Stream o'er the steep
Grey skies where the lark was.

Nought gold where your hair was;
Nought warm where your hand was;
  But phantom, forlorn,
  Beneath the thorn,
Your ghost where your face was.

Sad winds where your voice was;
Tears, tears where my heart was;
  And ever with me,
  Child, ever with me,
Silence where hope was.




WINTER


Green Mistletoe!
Oh, I remember now
A dell of snow,
Frost on the bough;
None there but I:
Snow, snow, and a wintry sky.

None there but I,
And footprints one by one,
Zigzaggedly,
Where I had run;
Where shrill and powdery
A robin sat in the tree.

And he whistled sweet;
And I in the crusted snow
With snow-clubbed feet
Jigged to and fro,
Till, from the day,
The rose-light ebbed away.

And the robin flew
Into the air, the air,
The white mist through;
And small and rare
The night-frost fell
In the calm and misty dell.

And the dusk gathered low,
And the silver moon and stars
On the frozen snow
Drew taper bars,
Kindled winking fires
In the hooded briers.

And the sprawling Bear
Growled deep in the sky;
And Orion's hair
Streamed sparkling by:
But the North sighed low,
"Snow, snow, more snow!"

     




TO MY MOTHER


Thine is my all, how little when 'tis told
        Beside thy gold!
Thine the first peace, and mine the livelong strife;
Thine the clear dawn, and mine the night of life;
        Thine the unstained belief,
        Darkened in grief.

Scarce even a flower but thine its beauty and name,
        Dimmed, yet the same;
Never in twilight comes the moon to me,
Stealing thro' those far woods, but tells of thee,
        Falls, dear, on my wild heart,
        And takes thy part.

Thou art the child, and I--how steeped in age!
        A blotted page
From that clear, little book life's taken away:
How could I read it, dear, so dark the day?
        Be it all memory
        'Twixt thee and me!

     



THE THREE CHERRY TREES


  There were three cherry trees once,
  Grew in a garden all shady;
And there for delight of so gladsome a sight,
  Walked a most beautiful lady,
  Dreamed a most beautiful lady.

  Birds in those branches did sing,
  Blackbird and throstle and linnet,
But she walking there was by far the most fair--
  Lovelier than all else within it,
  Blackbird and throstle and linnet.

  But blossoms to berries do come,
  All hanging on stalks light and slender,
And one long summer's day charmed that lady away,
  With vows sweet and merry and tender;
  A lover with voice low and tender.

  Moss and lichen the green branches deck;
  Weeds nod in its paths green and shady:
Yet a light footstep seems there to wander in dreams,
  The ghost of that beautiful lady,
  That happy and beautiful lady.




OLD SUSAN


When Susan's work was done, she would sit,
With one fat guttering candle lit,
And window opened wide to win
The sweet night air to enter in.
There, with a thumb to keep her place,
She would read, with stern and wrinkled face,
Her mild eyes gliding very slow
Across the letters to and fro,
While wagged the guttering candle flame
In the wind that through the window came.
And sometimes in the silence she
Would mumble a sentence audibly,
Or shake her head as if to say,
"You silly souls, to act this way!"
And never a sound from night I would hear,
Unless some far-off cock crowed clear;
Or her old shuffling thumb should turn
Another page; and rapt and stern,
Through her great glasses bent on me,
She would glance into reality;
And shake her round old silvery head,
With--"You!--I thought you was in bed!"--
Only to tilt her book again,
And rooted in Romance remain.




OLD BEN


Sad is old Ben Tristlewaite,
  Now his day is done,
And all his children
  Far away are gone.

He sits beneath his jasmined porch,
  His stick between his knees,
His eyes fixed vacant
  On his moss-grown trees.

Grass springs in the green path,
  His flowers are lean and dry,
His thatch hangs in wisps against
  The evening sky.

He has no heart to care now,
  Though the winds will blow
Whistling in his casement,
  And the rain drip through.

He thinks of his old Bettie,
  How she'd shake her head and say,
"You'll live to wish my sharp old tongue
  Could scold--some day."

But as in pale high autumn skies
  The swallows float and play,
His restless thoughts pass to and fro,
  But nowhere stay.

Soft, on the morrow, they are gone;
  His garden then will be
Denser and shadier and greener,
  Greener the moss-grown tree.




MISS LOO


When thin-strewn memory I look through,
I see most clearly poor Miss Loo,
Her tabby cat, her cage of birds,
Her nose, her hair, her muffled words,
And how she would open her green eyes,
As if in some immense surprise,
Whenever as we sat at tea
She made some small remark to me.

'Tis always drowsy summer when
From out the past she comes again;
The westering sunshine in a pool
Floats in her parlour still and cool;
While the slim bird its lean wires shakes,
As into piercing song it breaks;
Till Peter's pale-green eyes ajar
Dream, wake; wake, dream, in one brief bar.
And I am sitting, dull and shy,
And she with gaze of vacancy,

And large hands folded on the tray,
Musing the afternoon away;
Her satin bosom heaving slow
With sighs that softly ebb and flow.
And her plain face in such dismay,
It seems unkind to look her way:
Until all cheerful back will come
Her gentle gleaming spirit home:
And one would think that poor Miss Loo
Asked nothing else, if she had you.




THE TAILOR


Few footsteps stray when dusk droops o'er
The tailor's old stone-lintelled door.
There sits he stitching half asleep,
Beside his smoky tallow dip.
"Click, click," his needle hastes, and shrill
Cries back the cricket beneath the sill.
Sometimes he stays, and over his thread
Leans sidelong his old tousled head;
Or stoops to peer with half-shut eye
When some strange footfall echoes by;
Till clearer gleams his candle's spark
Into the dusty summer dark.
Then from his crosslegs he gets down,
To find how dark the evening is grown;
And hunched-up in his door he will hear
The cricket whistling crisp and clear;
And so beneath the starry grey
Will mutter half a seam away.




MARTHA


"Once ... once upon a time ..."
  Over and over again,
Martha would tell us her stories,
  In the hazel glen.

Hers were those clear grey eyes
  You watch, and the story seems
Told by their beautifulness
  Tranquil as dreams.

She would sit with her two slim hands
  Clasped round her bended knees;
While we on our elbows lolled,
  And stared at ease.

Her voice and her narrow chin,
  Her grave small lovely head,
Seemed half the meaning
  Of the words she said.

"Once ... once upon a time ..."
  Like a dream you dream in the night,
Fairies and gnomes stole out
  In the leaf-green light.

And her beauty far away
  Would fade, as her voice ran on,
Till hazel and summer sun
  And all were gone:

All fordone and forgot;
  And like clouds in the height of the sky,
Our hearts stood still in the hush
  Of an age gone by.




THE SLEEPER


As Ann came in one summer's day,
  She felt that she must creep,
So silent was the clear cool house,
  It seemed a house of sleep.
And sure, when she pushed open the door,
  Rapt in the stillness there,
Her mother sat, with stooping head,
  Asleep upon a chair;
Fast--fast asleep; her two hands laid
  Loose-folded on her knee,
So that her small unconscious face
  Looked half unreal to be:
So calmly lit with sleep's pale light
  Each feature was; so fair
Her forehead--every trouble was
  Smoothed out beneath her hair.
But though her mind in dream now moved,
  Still seemed her gaze to rest--
From out beneath her fast-sealed lids,
  Above her moving breast--
On Ann; as quite, quite still she stood;
  Yet slumber lay so deep
Even her hands upon her lap
  Seemed saturate with sleep.
And as Ann peeped, a cloudlike dread
  Stole over her, and then,
On stealthy, mouselike feet she trod,
  And tiptoed out again.




THE KEYS OF MORNING


While at her bedroom window once,
  Learning her task for school,
Little Louisa lonely sat
  In the morning clear and cool,
She slanted her small bead-brown eyes
  Across the empty street,
And saw Death softly watching her
  In the sunshine pale and sweet.

His was a long lean sallow face;
  He sat with half-shut eyes,
Like an old sailor in a ship
  Becalmed 'neath tropic skies.
Beside him in the dust he had set
  His staff and shady hat;
These, peeping small, Louisa saw
  Quite clearly where she sat--

The thinness of his coal-black locks,
  His hands so long and lean
They scarcely seemed to grasp at all
  The keys that hung between:
Both were of gold, but one was small,
  And with this last did he
Wag in the air, as if to say,
  "Come hither, child, to me!"

Louisa laid her lesson book
  On the cold window-sill;
And in the sleepy sunshine house
  Went softly down, until
She stood in the half-opened door,
  And peeped. But strange to say,
Where Death just now had sunning sat
  Only a shadow lay:
Just the tall chimney's round-topped cowl,
  And the small sun behind,
Had with its shadow in the dust
  Called sleepy Death to mind.
But most she thought how strange it was
  Two keys that he should bear,
And that, when beckoning, he should wag
  The littlest in the air.




RACHEL


Rachel sings sweet--
  Oh yes, at night,
Her pale face bent
  In the candle-light,
Her slim hands touch
  The answering keys,
And she sings of hope
  And of memories:
Sings to the little
  Boy that stands
Watching those slim,
  Light, heedful hands.
He looks in her face;
  Her dark eyes seem
Dark with a beautiful
  Distant dream;
And still she plays,
  Sings tenderly
To him of hope,
  And of memory.




ALONE


A very old woman
Lives in yon house.
The squeak of the cricket,
The stir of the mouse,
Are all she knows
Of the earth and us.

Once she was young,
Would dance and play,
Like many another
Young popinjay;
And run to her mother
At dusk of day.

And colours bright
She delighted in;
The fiddle to hear,
And to lift her chin,
And sing as small
As a twittering wren.

But age apace
Comes at last to all;
And a lone house filled
With the cricket's call;
And the scampering mouse
In the hollow wall.




THE BELLS


Shadow and light both strove to be
The eight bell-ringers' company,
As with his gliding rope in hand,
Counting his changes, each did stand;
While rang and trembled every stone,
To music by the bell-mouths blown:
Till the bright clouds that towered on high
Seemed to re-echo cry with cry.
Still swang the clappers to and fro,
When, in the far-spread fields below,
I saw a ploughman with his team
Lift to the bells and fix on them
His distant eyes, as if he would
Drink in the utmost sound he could;
While near him sat his children three,
And in the green grass placidly
Played undistracted on, as if
What music earthly bells might give
Could only faintly stir their dream,
And stillness make more lovely seem.
Soon night hid horses, children, all
In sleep deep and ambrosial.
Yet, yet, it seemed, from star to star,
Welling now near, now faint and far,
Those echoing bells rang on in dream,
And stillness made even lovelier seem.




THE SCARECROW


All winter through I bow my head
  Beneath the driving rain;
The North Wind powders me with snow
  And blows me back again;
At midnight 'neath a maze of stars
  I flame with glittering rime,
And stand, above the stubble, stiff
  As mail at morning-prime.
But when that child, called Spring, and all
  His host of children, come,
Scattering their buds and dew upon
  These acres of my home,
Some rapture in my rags awakes;
  I lift void eyes and scan
The skies for crows, those ravening foes,
  Of my strange master, Man.
I watch him striding lank behind
  His clashing team, and know
Soon will the wheat swish body high
  Where once lay sterile snow;
Soon shall I gaze across a sea
  Of sun-begotten grain,
Which my unflinching watch hath sealed
  For harvest once again.




NOD


Softly along the road of evening,
  In a twilight dim with rose,
Wrinkled with age, and drenched with dew,
  Old Nod, the shepherd, goes.

His drowsy flock streams on before him,
  Their fleeces charged with gold,
To where the sun's last beam leans low
  On Nod the shepherd's fold.

The hedge is quick and green with brier,
  From their sand the conies creep;
And all the birds that fly in heaven
  Flock singing home to sleep.

His lambs outnumber a noon's roses,
  Yet, when night's shadows fall,
His blind old sheep-dog, Slumber-soon,
  Misses not one of all.

His are the quiet steeps of dreamland,
  The waters of no-more-pain,
His ram's bell rings 'neath an arch of stars,
  "Rest, rest, and rest again."




THE BINDWEED


The bindweed roots pierce down
  Deeper than men do lie,
Laid in their dark-shut graves
  Their slumbering kinsmen by.

Yet what frail thin-spun flowers
  She casts into the air,
To breathe the sunshine, and
  To leave her fragrance there.

But when the sweet moon comes,
  Showering her silver down,
Half-wreathèd in faint sleep,
  They droop where they have blown.

So all the grass is set,
  Beneath her trembling ray,
With buds that have been flowers,
  Brimmed with reflected day.




WINTER


Clouded with snow
  The cold winds blow,
And shrill on leafless bough
The robin with its burning breast
  Alone sings now.

  The rayless sun,
  Day's journey done,
Sheds its last ebbing light
On fields in leagues of beauty spread
  Unearthly white.

  Thick draws the dark,
  And spark by spark,
The frost-fires kindle, and soon
Over that sea of frozen foam
  Floats the white moon.




THERE BLOOMS NO BUD IN MAY


There blooms no bud in May
  Can for its white compare
With snow at break of day,
  On fields forlorn and bare.

For shadow it hath rose,
  Azure, and amethyst;
And every air that blows
  Dies out in beauteous mist.

It hangs the frozen bough
  With flowers on which the night
Wheeling her darkness through
  Scatters a starry light.

Fearful of its pale glare
  In flocks the starlings rise;
Slide through the frosty air,
  And perch with plaintive cries.

Only the inky rook,
  Hunched cold in ruffled wings,
Its snowy nest forsook,
  Caws of unnumbered Springs.




NOON AND NIGHT FLOWER


    Not any flower that blows
    But shining watch doth keep;
Every swift changing chequered hour it knows
Now to break forth in beauty; now to sleep.

    This for the roving bee
    Keeps open house, and this
Stainless and clear is, that in darkness she
May lure the moth to where her nectar is.

    Lovely beyond the rest
    Are these of all delight:--
The tiny pimpernel that noon loves best,
The primrose palely burning through the night.

    One 'neath day's burning sky
    With ruby decks her place,
The other when Eve's chariot glideth by
Lifts her dim torch to light that dreaming face.




ESTRANGED


No one was with me there--
Happy I was--alone;
Yet from the sunshine suddenly
    A joy was gone.

A bird in an empty house
Sad echoes makes to ring,
Flitting from room to room
    On restless wing:

Till from its shades he flies,
And leaves forlorn and dim
The narrow solitudes
   So strange to him.

So, when with fickle heart
I joyed in the passing day,
A presence my mood estranged
    Went grieved away.




THE TIRED CUPID


The thin moonlight with trickling ray,
Thridding the boughs of silver may,
Trembles in beauty, pale and cool,
On folded flower, and mantled pool.
All in a haze the rushes lean--
And he--he sits, with chin between
His two cold hands; his bare feet set
Deep in the grasses, green and wet.
About his head a hundred rings
Of gold loop down to meet his wings,
Whose feathers, arched their stillness through,
Gleam with slow-gathering drops of dew.
The mouse-bat peers; the stealthy vole
Creeps from the covert of its hole;
A shimmering moth its pinions furls,
Grey in the moonshine of his curls;
'Neath the faint stars the night-airs stray,
Scattering the fragrance of the may;
And with each stirring of the bough
Shadow beclouds his childlike brow.




DREAMS


Be gentle, O hands of a child;
Be true: like a shadowy sea
In the starry darkness of night
    Are your eyes to me.

But words are shallow, and soon
Dreams fade that the heart once knew;
And youth fades out in the mind,
    In the dark eyes too.

What can a tired heart say,
Which the wise of the world have made dumb?
Save to the lonely dreams of a child,
    "Return again, come!"




FAITHLESS


The words you said grow faint;
  The lamps you lit burn dim;
Yet, still be near your faithless friend
  To urge and counsel him.

Still with returning feet
  To where life's shadows brood,
With steadfast eyes made clear in death
  Haunt his vague solitude.

So he, beguiled with earth,
  Yet with its vain things vexed,
Keep even to his own heart unknown
  Your memory unperplexed.




THE SHADE


Darker than night; and oh, much darker she,
Whose eyes in deep night darkness gaze on me.
No stars surround her; yet the moon seems hid
Afar somewhere, beneath that narrow lid.
She darkens against the darkness; and her face
Only by adding thought to thought I trace,
Limned shadowily: O dream, return once more
To gloomy Hades and the whispering shore!




BE ANGRY NOW NO MORE


Be angry now no more!
  If I have grieved thee--if
Thy kindness, mine before,
No hope may now restore:
  Only forgive, forgive!

If still resentment burns
  In thy cold breast, oh if
No more to pity turns,
No more, once tender, yearns
  Thy love; oh yet forgive!...

Ask of the winter rain
June's withered rose again:
Ask grace of the salt sea:
She will not answer thee.
God would ten times have shriven
A heart so riven;
In her cold care thou would'st be
Still unforgiven.




EXILE


Had the gods loved me I had lain
  Where darnel is, and thorn,
And the wild night-bird's nightlong strain
  Trembles in boughs forlorn.

Nay, but they loved me not; and I
  Must needs a stranger be,
Whose every exiled day gone by
  Aches with their memory.




WHERE?


Where is my love--
  In silence and shadow she lies,
Under the April-grey, calm waste of the skies;
    And a bird above,
  In the darkness tender and clear,
Keeps saying over and over, Love lies here!

    Not that she's dead;
  Only her soul is flown
Out of its last pure earthly mansion;
    And cries instead
  In the darkness, tender and clear,
Like the voice of a bird in the leaves, Love--
      Love lies here.




MUSIC UNHEARD


Sweet sounds, begone--
  Whose music on my ear
Stirs foolish discontent
  Or lingering here;
When, if I crossed
  The crystal verge of death,
Him I should see.
  Who these sounds murmureth.

Sweet sounds, begone--
  Ask not my heart to break
Its bond of bravery for
  Sweet quiet's sake;
Lure not my feet
  To leave the path they must
Tread on, unfaltering,
  Till I sleep in dust.

Sweet sounds, begone!
  Though silence brings apace
Deadly disquiet
  Of this homeless place;
And all I love
  In beauty cries to me,
"We but vain shadows
  And reflections be."




ALL THAT'S PAST


Very old are the woods;
  And the buds that break
Out of the brier's boughs,
  When March winds wake,
So old with their beauty are--
  Oh, no man knows
Through what wild centuries
  Roves back the rose.

Very old are the brooks;
  And the rills that rise
Where snow sleeps cold beneath
  The azure skies
Sing such a history
  Of come and gone,
Their every drop is as wise
  As Solomon.

Very old are we men;
  Our dreams are tales
Told in dim Eden
  By Eve's nightingales;
We wake and whisper awhile,
  But, the day gone by,
Silence and sleep like fields
  Of amaranth lie.




WHEN THE ROSE IS FADED


When the rose is faded,
  Memory may still dwell on
Her beauty shadowed,
  And the sweet smell gone.

That vanishing loveliness,
  That burdening breath
No bond of life hath then
  Nor grief of death.

'Tis the immortal thought
  Whose passion still
Makes of the changing
  The unchangeable.

Oh, thus thy beauty,
  Loveliest on earth to me,
Dark with no sorrow, shines
  And burns, with Thee.




SLEEP


Men all, and birds, and creeping beasts,
  When the dark of night is deep,
From the moving wonder of their lives
  Commit themselves to sleep.

Without a thought, or fear, they shut
  The narrow gates of sense;
Heedless and quiet, in slumber turn
  Their strength to impotence.

The transient strangeness of the earth
  Their spirits no more see:
Within a silent gloom withdrawn,
  They slumber in secrecy.

Two worlds they have--a globe forgot
  Wheeling from dark to light;
And all the enchanted realm of dream
  That burgeons out of night.




THE STRANGER


Half-hidden in a graveyard,
  In the blackness of a yew,
Where never living creature stirs,
  Nor sunbeam pierces through,

Is a tomb, green and crooked,--
  Its faded legend gone,--
With but one rain-worn cherub's head
  Of smouldering stone.

There, when the dusk is falling,
  Silence broods so deep
It seems that every wind that breathes
  Blows from the field of sleep.

Day breaks in heedless beauty,
  Kindling each drop of dew,
But unforsaking shadow dwells
  Beneath this lonely yew.

And, all else lost and faded,
  Only this listening head
Keeps with a strange unanswering smile
  Its secret with the dead.




NEVER MORE SAILOR


Never more, Sailor,
Shall thou be
Tossed on the wind-ridden,
Restless sea.
Its tides may labour;
All the world
Shake 'neath that weight
Of waters hurled:
But its whole shock
Can only stir
Thy dust to a quiet
Even quieter.
Thou mock'st at land
Who now art come
To such a small
And shallow home;
Yet bore the sea
Full many a care
For bones that once
A sailor's were.
And though the grave's
Deep soundlessness
Thy once sea-deafened
Ear distress,
No robin ever
On the deep
Hopped with his song
To haunt thy sleep.




ARABIA


Far are the shades of Arabia,
  Where the Princes ride at noon,
'Mid the verdurous vales and thickets,
  Under the ghost of the moon;
And so dark is that vaulted purple
  Flowers in the forest rise
And toss into blossom 'gainst the phantom stars
  Pale in the noonday skies.

Sweet is the music of Arabia
  In my heart, when out of dreams
I still in the thin clear mirk of dawn
  Descry her gliding streams;
Hear her strange lutes on the green banks
  Ring loud with the grief and delight
Of the dim-silked dark-haired Musicians
  In the brooding silence of night.

They haunt me--her lutes and her forests;
  No beauty on earth I see
But shadowed with that dreams recalls
  Her loveliness to me:
Still eyes look coldly upon me,
  Cold voices whisper and say--
"He is crazed with the spell of far Arabia,
  They have stolen his wits away."




THE MOUNTAINS


Still, and blanched, and cold, and lone,
  The icy hills far off from me
With frosty ulys overgrown
  Stand in their sculptured secrecy.

No path of theirs the chamois fleet
  Treads, with a nostril to the wind;
O'er their ice-marbled glaciers beat
  No wings of eagles in my mind--

Yea, in my mind these mountains rise,
  Their perils dyed with evening's rose;
And still my ghost sits at my eyes
  And thirsts for their untroubled snows.




QUEEN DJENIRA


When Queen Djenira slumbers through
  The sultry noon's repose,
From out her dreams, as soft she lies,
  A faint thin music flows.

Her lovely hands lie narrow and pale
  With gilded nails, her head
Couched in its handed nets of gold
  Lies pillowed on her bed.

The little Nubian boys who fan
  Her cheeks and tresses clear,
Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful voices
  Seem afar to hear.

They slide their eyes, and nodding, say,
  "Queen Djenira walks to-day
The courts of the lord Pthamasar
  Where the sweet birds of Psuthys are."

And those of earth about her porch
  Of shadow cool and grey
Their sidelong beaks in silence lean,
  And silent flit away.




NEVER-TO-BE


Down by the waters of the sea
Reigns the King of Never-to-be.
His palace walls are black with night;
His torches star and moon's light,
And for his timepiece deep and grave
Beats on the green unhastening wave.

Windswept are his high corridors;
His pleasance the sea-mantled shores;
For sentinel a shadow stands
With hair in heaven, and cloudy hands;
And round his bed, king's guards to be,
Watch pines in iron solemnity.

His hound is mute; his steed at will
Roams pastures deep with asphodel;
His queen is to her slumber gone;
His courtiers mute lie, hewn in stone;
He hath forgot where he did hide
His sceptre in the mountain-side.

Grey-capped and muttering, mad is he--
The childless King of Never-to-be;
For all his people in the deep
Keep, everlasting, fast asleep;
And all his realm is foam and rain,
Whispering of what comes not again.




THE DARK CHÂTEAU


In dreams a dark château
  Stands ever open to me,
In far ravines dream-waters flow,
  Descending soundlessly;
Above its peaks the eagle floats,
  Lone in a sunless sky;
Mute are the golden woodland throats
  Of the birds flitting by.

No voice is audible. The wind
  Sleeps in its peace.
No flower of the light can find
  Refuge beneath its trees;
Only the darkening ivy climbs
  Mingled with wilding rose,
And cypress, morn and evening, time's
  Black shadow throws.

All vacant, and unknown;
  Only the dreamer steps
From stone to hollow stone,
  Where the green moss sleeps,
Peers at the rivers in its deeps,
  The eagle lone in the sky,
While the dew of evening drips,
  Coldly and silently.

Would that I could steal in!--
  Into each secret room;
Would that my sleep-bright eyes could win
  To the inner gloom;
Gaze from its high windows,
  Far down its mouldering walls,
Where amber-clear still Lethe flows,
  And foaming falls.

But ever as I gaze,
  From slumber soft doth come
Some touch my stagnant sense to raise
  To its old earthly home;
Fades then that sky serene;
  And peak of ageless snow;
Fades to a paling dawn-lit green,
  My dark château.




THE DWELLING-PLACE


Deep in a forest where the kestrel screamed,
  Beside a lake of water, clear as glass,
The time-worn windows of a stone house gleamed
        Named only "Alas."

Yet happy as the wild birds in the glades
  Of that green forest, thridding the still air
With low continued heedless serenades,
        Its heedless people were.

The throbbing chords of violin and lute,
  The lustre of lean tapers in dark eyes,
Fair colours, beauteous flowers, faint-bloomed fruit
        Made earth seem Paradise

To them that dwelt within this lonely house:
  Like children of the gods in lasting peace,
They ate, sang, danced, as if each day's carouse
        Need never pause, nor cease.

Some to the hunt would wend, with hound and horn,
  And clash of silver, beauty, bravery, pride,
Heeding not one who on white horse upborne
        With soundless hoofs did ride.

Dreamers there were who watched the hours away
  Beside a fountain's foam. And in the sweet
Of phantom evening, 'neath the night-bird's lay,
        Did loved with loved-one meet.

All, all were children, for, the long day done,
  They barred the heavy door against lightfoot fear;
And few words spake though one known face was gone,
        Yet still seemed hovering near.

They heaped the bright fire higher; poured dark wine;
  And in long revelry dazed the questioning eye;
Curtained three-fold the heart-dismaying shine
        Of midnight streaming by.

They shut the dark out from the painted wall,
  With candles dared the shadow at the door,
Sang down the faint reiterated call
        Of those who came no more.

Yet clear above that portal plain was writ,
  Confronting each at length alone to pass
Out of its beauty into night star-lit,
        That word "Alas!"




THE LISTENERS


"Is there anybody there?" said the Traveller,
  Knocking on the moonlit door;
And his horse in the silence champed the grasses
  Of the forest's ferny floor:
And a bird flew up out of the turret,
  Above the Traveller's head:
And he smote upon the door again a second time;
  "Is there anybody there?" he said.
But no one descended to the Traveller;
  No head from the leaf-fringed sill
Leaned over and looked into his grey eyes,
  Where he stood perplexed and still.
But only a host of phantom listeners
  That dwelt in the lone house then
Stood listening in the quiet of the moonlight
  To that voice from the world of men:
Stood thronging the faint moonbeams on the dark stair,
  That goes down to the empty hall,
Hearkening in an air stirred and shaken
  By the lonely Traveller's call.
And he felt in his heart their strangeness,
  Their stillness answering his cry,
While his horse moved, cropping the dark turf,
  'Neath the starred and leafy sky;
For he suddenly smote on the door, even
  Louder, and lifted his head:--
"Tell them I came, and no one answered,
  That I kept my word," he said.
Never the least stir made the listeners,
  Though every word he spake
Fell echoing through the shadowiness of the still house
  From the one man left awake:
Ay, they heard his foot upon the stirrup,
  And the sound of iron on stone,
And how the silence surged softly backward,
  When the plunging hoofs were gone.




TIME PASSES


    There was nought in the Valley
    But a Tower of Ivory,
Its base enwreathed with red
    Flowers that at evening
    Caught the sun's crimson
As to Ocean low he sped.

    Lucent and lovely
    It stood in the morning
Under a trackless hill;
    With snows eternal
    Muffling its summit,
And silence ineffable.

    Sighing of solitude
    Winds from the cold heights
Haunted its yellowing stone;
    At noon its shadow
    Stretched athwart cedars
    Whence every bird was flown.

    Its stair was broken,
    Its starlit walls were
Fretted; its flowers shone
    Wide at the portal,
    Full-blown and fading,
Their last faint fragrance gone.

    And on high in its lantern
    A shape of the living
Watched o'er a shoreless sea,
    From a Tower rotting
    With age and weakness,
    Once lovely as ivory.




BEWARE!


An ominous bird sang from its branch,
    "Beware, O Wanderer!
Night 'mid her flowers of glamourie spilled
    Draws swiftly near:

"Night with her darkened caravans,
    Piled deep with silver and myrrh,
Draws from the portals of the East,
    O Wanderer near."

"Night who walks plumèd through the fields
    Of stars that strangely stir--
Smitten to fire by the sandals of him
    Who walks with her."




THE JOURNEY


Heart-sick of his journey was the Wanderer;
  Footsore and parched was he;
And a Witch who long had lurked by the wayside,
  Looked out of sorcery.

"Lift up your eyes, you lonely Wanderer,"
  She peeped from her casement small;
"Here's shelter and quiet to give you rest, young man,
  And apples for thirst withal."

And he looked up out of his sad reverie,
  And saw all the woods in green,
With birds that flitted feathered in the dappling,
  The jewel-bright leaves between.

And he lifted up his face towards her lattice,
  And there, alluring-wise,
Slanting through the silence of the long past,
  Dwelt the still green Witch's eyes.

And vaguely from the hiding-place of memory
  Voices seemed to cry;
"What is the darkness of one brief life-time
  To the deaths thou hast made us die?

"Heed not the words of the Enchantress
  Who would us still betray!"
And sad with the echo of their reproaches,
  Doubting, he turned away.

"I may not shelter beneath your roof, lady,
  Nor in this wood's green shadow seek repose,
Nor will your apples quench the thirst
  A homesick wanderer knows."

"'Homesick' forsooth!" she softly mocked him:
  And the beauty in her face
Made in the sunshine pale and trembling
  A stillness in that place.

And he sighed, as if in fear, that young Wanderer,
  Looking to left and to right,
Where the endless narrow road swept onward,
  Till in distance lost to sight.

And there fell upon his sense the brier,
  Haunting the air with its breath,
And the faint shrill sweetness of the birds' throats,
  Their tent of leaves beneath.

And there was the Witch, in no wise heeding;
  Her arbour, and fruit-filled dish,
Her pitcher of well-water, and clear damask--
  All that the weary wish.

And the last gold beam across the green world
  Faltered and failed, as he
Remembered his solitude and the dark night's
  Inhospitality.

And he looked upon the Witch with eyes of sorrow
  In the darkening of the day;
And turned him aside into oblivion;
  And the voices died away....

And the Witch stepped down from her casement:
  In the hush of night he heard
The calling and wailing in dewy thicket
  Of bird to hidden bird.

And gloom stole all her burning crimson,
  Remote and faint in space
As stars in gathering shadow of the evening
  Seemed now her phantom face.

And one night's rest shall be a myriad,
  Midst dreams that come and go;
Till heedless fate, unmoved by weakness, bring him
  This same strange by-way through:

To the beauty of earth that fades in ashes,
  The lips of welcome, and the eyes
More beauteous than the feeble shine of Hesper
  Lone in the lightening skies:

Till once again the Witch's guile entreat him;
  But, worn with wisdom, he
Steadfast and cold shall choose the dark night's
  Inhospitality.




HAUNTED


The rabbit in his burrow keeps
No guarded watch, in peace he sleeps;
The wolf that howls in challenging night
Cowers to her lair at morning light;
The simplest bird entwines a nest
Where she may lean her lovely breast,
Couched in the silence of the bough.
But thou, O man, what rest hast thou?

Thy emptiest solitude can bring
Only a subtler questioning
In thy divided heart. Thy bed
Recalls at dawn what midnight said.
Seek how thou wilt to feign content,
Thy flaming ardour's quickly spent;
Soon thy last company is gone,
And leaves thee--with thyself--alone.

Pomp and great friends may hem thee round,
A thousand busy tasks be found;
Earth's thronging beauties may beguile
Thy longing lovesick heart awhile;
And pride, like clouds of sunset, spread
A changing glory round thy head;
But fade will all; and thou must come,
Hating thy journey, homeless, home.

Rave how thou wilt; unmoved, remote,
That inward presence slumbers not,
Frets out each secret from thy breast,
Gives thee no rally, pause, nor rest,
Scans close thy very thoughts, lest they
Should sap his patient power away,
Answers thy wrath with peace, thy cry
With tenderest taciturnity.




SILENCE


With changeful sound life beats upon the ear;
  Yet, striving for release,
  The most seductive string's
    Sweet jargonings,
    The happiest throat's
  Most easeful, lovely notes
Fall back into a veiling silentness.

Even 'mid the rumour of a moving host,
  Blackening the clear green earth,
  Vainly 'gainst that thin wall
    The trumpets call,
    Or with loud hum
  The smoke-bemuffled drum:
From that high quietness no reply comes forth.

When, all at peace, two friends at ease alone
  Talk out their hearts,--yet still
  Between the grace-notes of
    The voice of love
    From each to each
  Trembles a rarer speech,
And with its presence every pause doth fill.

Unmoved it broods, this all-encompassing hush
  Of one who stooping near,
  No smallest stir will make
    Our fear to wake;
    But yet intent
  Upon some mystery bent
  Harkens the lightest word we say, or hear.




WINTER DUSK


Dark frost was in the air without,
  The dusk was still with cold and gloom,
When less than even a shadow came
    And stood within the room.

But of the three around the fire,
  None turned a questioning head to look,
Still read a clear voice, on and on,
    Still stooped they o'er their book.

The children watched their mother's eyes
  Moving on softly line to line;
It seemed to listen too--that shade,
    Yet made no outward sign.

The fire-flames crooned a tiny song,
  No cold wind moved the wintry tree;
The children both in Faërie dreamed
    Beside their mother's knee.

And nearer yet that spirit drew
  Above that heedless one, intent
Only on what the simple words
    Of her small story meant.

No voiceless sorrow grieved her mind,
  No memory her bosom stirred,
Nor dreamed she, as she read to two,
    'Twas surely three who heard.

Yet when, the story done, she smiled
  From face to face, serene and clear,
A love, half dread, sprang up, as she
    Leaned close and drew them near.




THE GHOST


      Peace in thy hands,
      Peace in thine eyes,
      Peace on thy brow;
Flower of a moment in the eternal hour,
      Peace with me now.

      Not a wave breaks,
      Not a bird calls,
      My heart, like a sea,
Silent after a storm that hath died,
      Sleeps within me.

      All the night's dews,
      All the world's leaves,
      All winter's snow
Seem with their quiet to have stilled in life's dream
      All sorrowing now.




AN EPITAPH


Here lies a most beautiful lady,
Light of step and heart was she;
I think she was the most beautiful lady
That ever was in the West Country.
But beauty vanishes; beauty passes;
However rare--rare it be;
And when I crumble, who will remember
This lady of the West Country?




"THE HAWTHORN HATH A DEATHLY SMELL"


The flowers of the field
  Have a sweet smell;
Meadowsweet, tansy, thyme,
  And faint-heart pimpernel;
But sweeter even than these,
  The silver of the may
Wreathed is with incense for
  The Judgment Day.

An apple, a child, dust,
  When falls the evening rain,
Wild brier's spicèd leaves,
  Breathe memories again;
With further memory fraught,
  The silver of the may
Wreathed is with incense for
  The Judgment Day.

Eyes of all loveliness--
  Shadow of strange delight,
Even as a flower fades
  Must thou from sight;
But oh, o'er thy grave's mound,
  Till come the Judgment Day,
Wreathed shall with incense he
  Thy sharp-thorned may.

     





TO MARGOT


When I go free,
I think 'twill be
A night of stars and snow,
And the wild fires of frost shall light
My footsteps as I go;
Nobody--nobody will be there
With groping touch, or sight,
To see me in my bush of hair
Dance burning through the night.




THE LINNET

Upon this leafy bush
  With thorns and roses in it,
Flutters a thing of light,
  A twittering linnet.
And all the throbbing world
  Of dew and sun and air
By this small parcel of life
  Is made more fair;
As if each bramble-spray
And mounded gold-wreathed furze,
  Harebell and little thyme,
  Were only hers;
As if this beauty and grace
  Did to one bird belong,
And, at a flutter of wing,
  Might vanish in song.




THE SUNKEN GARDEN


Speak not--whisper not;
Here bloweth thyme and bergamot;
Softly on the evening hour,
Secret herbs their spices shower.
Dark-spiked rosemary and myrrh,
Lean-stalked, purple lavender;
Hides within her bosom, too,
All her sorrows, bitter rue.

Breathe not--trespass not;
Of this green and darkling spot,
Latticed from the moon's beams,
Perchance a distant dreamer dreams;
Perchance upon its darkening air,
The unseen ghosts of children fare,
Faintly swinging, sway and sweep,
Like lovely sea-flowers in its deep;
While, unmoved, to watch and ward,
Amid its gloomed and daisied sward,
Stands with bowed and dewy head
That one little leaden Lad.




THE RIDDLERS


"Thou solitary!" the Blackbird cried,
"I, from the happy Wren,
Linnet and Blackcap, Woodlark, Thrush,
Perched all upon a sweetbrier bush,
Have come at cold of midnight-tide
To ask thee, Why and when
Grief smote thy heart so thou dost sing
In solemn hush of evening,
So sorrowfully, lovelorn Thing--
Nay, nay, not sing, but rave, but wail,
Most melancholic Nightingale?
Do not the dews of darkness steep
All pinings of the day in sleep?
Why, then, when rocked in starry nest
We mutely couch, secure, at rest,
Doth thy lone heart delight to make
Music for sorrow's sake?"
A Moon was there. So still her beam,
It seemed the whole world lay in dream,
Lulled by the watery sea.
And from her leafy night-hung nook
Upon this stranger soft did look
The Nightingale: sighed he:--

"'Tis strange, my friend; the Kingfisher
But yestermorn conjured me here
Out of his green and gold to say
Why thou, in splendour of the noon,
Wearest of colour but golden shoon,
And else dost thee array
In a most sombre suit of black?
'Surely,' he sighed, 'some load of grief,
Past all our thinking--and belief--
Must weigh upon his back!'
Do, then, in turn, tell me, If joy
Thy heart as well as voice employ
Why dost thou now most Sable, shine
In plumage woefuller far than mine?
Thy silence is a sadder thing
Than any dirge I sing!"

Thus, then, these two small birds, perched there,
Breathed a strange riddle both did share
Yet neither could expound.
And we--who sing but as we can,
In the small knowledge of a man--
Have we an answer found?
Nay, some are happy whose delight
Is hid even from themselves from sight;
And some win peace who spend
The skill of words to sweeten despair
Of finding consolation where
Life has but one dark end;
Who, in rapt solitude, tell o'er
A tale as lovely as forlore,
Into the midnight air.




MOONLIGHT


The far moon maketh lovers wise
  In her pale beauty trembling down,
Lending curved cheeks, dark lips, dark eyes,
  A strangeness not her own.
And, though they shut their lids to kiss,
  In starless darkness peace to win,
Even on that secret world from this
  Her twilight enters in.




THE BLIND BOY


"I have no master," said the Blind Boy,
  "My mother, 'Dame Venus' they do call;
Cowled in this hood she sent me begging
  For whate'er in pity may befall.

"Hard was her visage, me adjuring,--
  'Have no fond mercy on the kind!
Here be sharp arrows, bunched in quiver,
  Draw close ere striking--thou art blind.'

"So stand I here, my woes entreating,
  In this dark alley, lest the Moon
Point with her sparkling my barbed armoury
  Shine on my silver-lacèd shoon.

"Oh, sir, unkind this Dame to me-ward;
  Of the salt billow was her birth ...
In your sweet charity draw nearer
  The saddest rogue on Earth!"




THE QUARRY


You hunted me with all the pack,
  Too blind, too blind, to see
By no wild hope of force or greed
  Could you make sure of me.

And like a phantom through the glades,
  With tender breast aglow,
The goddess in me laughed to hear
  Your horns a-roving go.

She laughed to think no mortal ever
  By dint of mortal flesh
The very Cause that was the Hunt
  One moment could enmesh:

That though with captive limbs I lay,
  Stilled breath and vanquished eyes,
He that hunts Love with horse and hound
  Hunts out his heart and eyes.




MRS. GRUNDY


"Step very softly, sweet Quiet-foot,
Stumble not, whisper not, smile not:
By this dark ivy stoop cheek and brow.
Still even thy heart! What seest thou?..."

"High-coifed, broad-browed, aged, suave yet grim,
A large flat face, eyes keenly dim,
Staring at nothing--that's me!--and yet,
With a hate one could never, no, never forget ..."

"This is my world, my garden, my home,
Hither my father bade mother to come
And bear me out of the dark into light,
And happy I was in her tender sight.

"And then, thou frail flower, she died and went,
Forgetting my pitiless banishment,
And that Old Woman--an Aunt--she said,
Came hither, lodged, fattened, and made her bed.

"Oh yes, thou most blessed, from Monday to Sunday,
Has lived on me, preyed on me, Mrs. Grundy:
Called me, 'dear Nephew'; on each of those chairs
Has gloated in righteousness, heard my prayers.

"Why didst thou dare the thorns of the grove,
Timidest trespasser, huntress of love?
Now thou hast peeped, and now dost know
What kind of creature is thine for foe.

"Not that she'll tear out thy innocent eyes,
Poison thy mouth with deviltries.
Watch thou, wait thou: soon will begin
The guile of a voice: hark!..." "Come in, Come in!"




THE TRYST


Flee into some forgotten night and be
Of all dark long my moon-bright company:
Beyond the rumour even of Paradise come,
There, out of all remembrance, make our home:
Seek we some close hid shadow for our lair,
Hollowed by Noah's mouse beneath the chair
Wherein the Omnipotent, in slumber bound,
Nods till the piteous Trump of Judgment sound.
Perchance Leviathan of the deep sea
Would lease a lost mermaiden's grot to me,
There of your beauty we would joyance make--
A music wistful for the sea-nymph's sake:
Haply Elijah, o'er his spokes of fire,
Cresting steep Leo, or the heavenly Lyre,
Spied, tranced in azure of inanest space,
Some eyrie hostel, meet for human grace,
Where two might happy be--just you and I--
Lost in the uttermost of Eternity.
Think! In Time's smallest clock's minutest beat
Might there not rest be found for wandering feet?
Or, 'twixt the sleep and wake of Helen's dream,
Silence wherein to sing love's requiem?
No, no. Nor earth, nor air, nor fire, nor deep
Could lull poor mortal longingness asleep.
Somewhere there Nothing is; and there lost Man
Shall win what changeless vague of peace he can.




ALONE


The abode of the nightingale is bare,
Flowered frost congeals in the gelid air,
The fox howls from his frozen lair:
      Alas, my loved one is gone,
      I am alone:
      It is winter.

Once the pink cast a winy smell,
The wild bee hung in the hyacinth bell,
Light in effulgence of beauty fell:
      Alas, my loved one is gone,
      I am alone:
      It is winter.

My candle a silent fire doth shed,
Starry Orion hunts o'erhead;
Come moth, come shadow, the world is dead:
      Alas, my loved one is gone,
      I am alone:
      It is winter.




THE EMPTY HOUSE


See this house, how dark it is
Beneath its vast-boughed trees!
Not one trembling leaflet cries
To that Watcher in the skies--
"Remove, remove thy searching gaze,
Innocent, of heaven's ways,
Brood not, Moon, so wildly bright,
On secrets hidden from sight."

"Secrets," sighs the night-wind,
"Vacancy is all I find;
Every keyhole I have made
Wails a summons, faint and sad,
No voice ever answers me,
      Only vacancy."
"Once, once ..." the cricket shrills,
And far and near the quiet fills
With its tiny voice, and then
      Hush falls again.

Mute shadows creeping slow
Mark how the hours go.
Every stone is mouldering slow.
And the least winds that blow
Some minutest atom shake,
Some fretting ruin make
In roof and walls. How black it is
Beneath these thick-boughed trees!




MISTRESS FELL


"Whom seek you here, sweet Mistress Fell?"
"One who loved me passing well.
Dark his eye, wild his face--
Stranger, if in this lonely place
Bide such an one, then, prythee, say
I am come here to-day."

"Many his like, Mistress Fell?"
"I did not look, so cannot tell.
Only this I surely know,
When his voice called me, I must go;
Touched me his fingers, and my heart
Leapt at the sweet pain's smart."

"Why did he leave you, Mistress Fell?"
"Magic laid its dreary spell.--
Stranger, he was fast asleep;
Into his dream I tried to creep;
Called his name, soft was my cry;
He answered--not one sigh.

"The flower and the thorn are here;
Falleth the night-dew, cold and clear;
Out of her bower the bird replies,
Mocking the dark with ecstasies,
See how the earth's green grass doth grow,
Praising what sleeps below!

"Thus have they told me. And I come,
As flies the wounded wild-bird home.
Not tears I give; but all that he
Clasped in his arms, sweet charity;
All that he loved--to him I bring
For a close whispering."




THE GHOST


"Who knocks?" "I, who was beautiful,
  Beyond all dreams to restore,
I, from the roots of the dark thorn am hither.
  And knock on the door."

"Who speaks?" "I--once was my speech
  Sweet as the bird's on the air,
When echo lurks by the waters to heed;
  'Tis I speak thee fair."

"Dark is the hour!" "Ay, and cold."
  "Lone is my house." "Ah, but mine?"
"Sight, touch, lips, eyes yearned in vain."
  "Long dead these to thine ..."

Silence. Still faint on the porch
  Brake the flames of the stars.
In gloom groped a hope-wearied hand
  Over keys, bolts, and bars.

A face peered. All the grey night
  In chaos of vacancy shone;
Nought but vast sorrow was there--
  The sweet cheat gone.




THE STRANGER


In the woods as I did walk,
  Dappled with the moon's beam,
I did with a Stranger talk,
  And his name was Dream.

Spurred his heel, dark his cloak,
  Shady-wide his bonnet's brim;
His horse beneath a silvery oak
  Grazed as I talked with him.

Softly his breast-brooch burned and shone;
  Hill and deep were in his eyes;
One of his hands held mine, and one
  The fruit that makes men wise.

Wondrously strange was earth to see,
  Flowers white as milk did gleam;
Spread to Heaven the Assyrian Tree,
  Over my head with Dream.

Dews were still betwixt us twain;
  Stars a trembling beauty shed;
Yet--not a whisper comes again
  Of the words he said.




BETRAYAL


She will not die, they say,
She will but put her beauty by
        And hie away.

Oh, but her beauty gone, how lonely
Then will seem all reverie,
        How black to me!

All things will sad be made
And every hope a memory,
        All gladness dead.

Ghosts of the past will know
My weakest hour, and whisper to me,
        And coldly go.

And hers in deep of sleep,
Clothed in its mortal beauty I shall see,
        And, waking, weep.

Naught will my mind then find
In man's false Heaven my peace to be:
        All blind, and blind.




THE CAGE


Why did you flutter in vain hope, poor bird,
  Hard-pressed in your small cage of clay?
'Twas but a sweet, false echo that you heard,
      Caught only a feint of day.

Still is the night all dark, a homeless dark.
  Burn yet the unanswering stars. And silence brings
The same sea's desolate surge--sans bound or mark--
      Of all your wanderings.

Fret now no more; be still. Those steadfast eyes,
  Those folded hands, they cannot set you free;
Only with beauty wake wild memories--
  Sorrow for where you are, for where you would be.




THE REVENANT


O all ye fair ladies with your colours and your graces,
  And your eyes clear in flame of candle and hearth,
Toward the dark of this old window lift not up your smiling faces,
  Where a Shade stands forlorn from the cold of the earth.

God knows I could not rest for one I still was thinking of;
  Like a rose sheathed in beauty her spirit was to me;
Now out of unforgottenness a bitter draught I'm drinking of,
  'Tis sad of such beauty unremembered to be.

Men all all shades, O Woman.--Winds wist not of the way they blow.
  Apart from your kindness, life's at best but a snare.
Though a tongue now past praise this bitter thing doth say, I know
  What solitude means, and how, homeless, I fare.

Strange, strange, are ye all--except in beauty shared with her--
  Since I seek one I loved, yet was faithless to in death.
Not life enough I heaped, so thus my heart must fare with her,
  Now wrapt in the gross clay, bereft of life's breath.




MUSIC


When music sounds, gone is the earth I know,
And all her lovely things even lovelier grow;
Her flowers in vision flame, her forest trees,
Lift burdened branches, stilled with ecstasies.

When music sounds, out of the water rise
Naiads whose beauty dims my waking eyes,
Rapt in strange dreams burns each enchanted face,
With solemn echoing stirs their dwelling-place.

When music sounds, all that I was I am
Ere to this haunt of brooding dust I came;
While from Time's woods break into distant song
The swift-winged hours, as I hasten along.




THE REMONSTRANCE


I was at peace until you came
And set a careless mind aflame.
I lived in quiet; cold, content;
All longing in safe banishment,
Until your ghostly lips and eyes
    Made wisdom unwise.

Naught was in me to tempt your feet
To seek a lodging. Quite forgot
Lay the sweet solitude we two
In childhood used to wander through;
Time's cold had closed my heart about;
    And shut you out.

Well, and what then?... O vision grave,
Take all the little all I have!
Strip me of what in voiceless thought
Life's kept of life, unhoped, unsought!--
Reverie and dream that memory must
    Hide deep in dust!

This only I say:--Though cold and bare
The haunted house you have chosen to share,
Still 'neath its walls the moonbeam goes
    And trembles on the untended rose;

Still o'er its broken roof-tree rise
The starry arches of the skies;
And in your lightest word shall be
    The thunder of an ebbing sea.




NOCTURNE


'Tis not my voice now speaks; but a bird
In darkling forest hollows a sweet throat--
Pleads on till distant echo too hath heard
    And doubles every note:
So love that shrouded dwells in mystery
    Would cry and waken thee.

Thou Solitary, stir in thy still sleep;
All the night waits thee, yet thou still dream'st on.
Furtive the shadows that about thee creep,
And cheat the shining footsteps of the moon:
Unseal thine eyes, it is my heart that sings,
    And beats in vain its wings.

Lost in heaven's vague, the stars burn softly through
The world's dark latticings, we prisoned stray
Within its lovely labyrinth, and know
    Mute seraphs guard the way
Even from silence unto speech, from love
To that self's self it still is dreaming of.




THE EXILE


I am that Adam who, with Snake for guest,
Hid anguished eyes upon Eve's piteous breast.
I am that Adam who, with broken wings,
Fled from the Seraph's brazen trumpetings.
Betrayed and fugitive, I still must roam
A world where sin, and beauty, whisper of Home.

Oh, from wide circuit, shall at length I see
Pure daybreak lighten again on Eden's tree?
Loosed from remorse and hope and love's distress,
Enrobe me again in my lost nakedness?
No more with wordless grief a loved one grieve,
But to Heaven's nothingness re-welcome Eve?




THE UNCHANGING


After the songless rose of evening,
    Night quiet, dark, still,
In nodding cavalcade advancing
    Starred the deep hill:
You, in the valley standing,
    In your quiet wonder took
All that glamour, peace, and mystery
    In one grave look.
Beauty hid your naked body,
    Time dreamed in your bright hair,
In your eyes the constellations
    Burned far and fair.




INVOCATION


The burning fire shakes in the night,
  On high her silver candles gleam,
With far-flung arms enflamed with light,
  The trees are lost in dream.

Come in thy beauty! 'tis my love,
  Lost in far-wandering desire,
Hath in the darkling deep above
  Set stars and kindled fire.




EYES


O strange devices that alone divide
The seër from the seen--
The very highway of earth's pomp and pride
That lies between
The traveller and the cheating, sweet delight
Of where he longs to be,
But which, bound hand and foot, he, close on night,
Can only see.




LIFE


Hearken, O dear, now strikes the hour we die;
We, who in our strange kiss
Have proved a dream the world's realities,
Turned each from other's darkness with a sigh,
Need heed no more of life, waste no more breath
On any other journey, but of death.

And yet: Oh, know we well
How each of us must prove Love's infidel;
Still out of ecstasy turn trembling back
To earth's same empty track
Of leaden day by day, and hour by hour, and be
Of all things lovely the cold mortuary.




THE DISGUISE


Why in my heart, O Grief,
Dost thou in beauty hide?
Dead is my well-content,
And buried deep my pride.
Cold are their stones, beloved,
To hand and side.

The shadows of even are gone,
Shut are the day's clear flowers,
Now have her birds left mute
Their singing bowers,
Lone shall we be, we twain,
In the night hours.

Thou with thy cheek on mine,
And dark hair loosed, shall see
Take the far stars for fruit
The cypress tree,
And in the yew's black
Shall the moon be.

We will tell no old tales,
Nor heed if in wandering air
Die a lost song of love
Or the once fair;
Still as well-water be
The thoughts we share!

And, while the ghosts keep
Tryst from chill sepulchres,
Dreamless our gaze shall sleep,
And sealed our ears;
Heart unto heart will speak,
Without tears.

O, thy veiled, lovely face--
Joy's strange disguise--
Shall be the last to fade
From these rapt eyes,
Ere the first dart of daybreak
Pierce the skies.




VAIN QUESTIONING


What needest thou?--a few brief hours of rest
Wherein to seek thyself in thine own breast;
A transient silence wherein truth could say
Such was thy constant hope, and this thy way?--
      O burden of life that is
      A livelong tangle of perplexities!

What seekest thou?--a truce from that thou art;
Some steadfast refuge from a fickle heart;
Still to be thou, and yet no thing of scorn,
To find no stay here, and yet not forlorn?--
      O riddle of life that is
      An endless war 'twixt contrarieties.

Leave this vain questioning. Is not sweet the rose?
Sings not the wild bird ere to rest he goes?
Hath not in miracle brave June returned?
Burns not her beauty as of old it burned?
      O foolish one to roam
      So far in thine own mind away from home!

Where blooms the flower when her petals fade,
Where sleepeth echo by earth's music made,
Where all things transient to the changeless win,
There waits the peace thy spirit dwelleth in.




VIGIL


Dark is the night,
  The fire burns faint and low,
Hours--days--years,
  Into grey ashes go;
I strive to read,
  But sombre is the glow.

Thumbed are the pages,
  And the print is small;
Mocking the winds
  That from the darkness call;
Feeble the fire that lends
  Its light withal.

O ghost, draw nearer;
  Let thy shadowy hair,
Blot out the pages
  That we cannot share;
Be ours the one last leaf
  By Fate left bare!

Let's Finis scrawl,
  And then Life's book put by;
Turn each to each
  In all simplicity:
Ere the last flame is gone
  To warm us by.




THE OLD MEN


Old and alone, sit we,
  Caged, riddle-rid men;
Lost to Earth's "Listen!" and "See!"
  Thought's "Wherefore?" and "When?"

Only far memories stray
  Of a past once lovely, but now
Wasted and faded away,
  Like green leaves from the bough.

Vast broods the silence of night,
  The ruinous moon
Lifts on our faces her light,
  Whence all dreaming is gone.

We speak not; trembles each head;
  In their sockets our eyes are still;
Desire as cold as the dead;
  Without wonder or will.
And One, with a lanthorn, draws near,
  At clash with the moon in our eyes:
"Where art thou?" he asks: "I am here,"
  One by one we arise.

And none lifts a hand to withhold
  A friend from the touch of that foe:
Heart cries unto heart, "Thou art old!"
  Yet, reluctant, we go.




THE DREAMER


O thou who giving helm and sword,
  Gav'st, too, the rusting rain,
And starry dark's all tender dews
    To blunt and stain:

Out of the battle I am sped,
  Unharmed, yet stricken sore;
A living shape amid whispering shades
    On Lethe's shore.

No trophy in my hands I bring,
  To this sad, sighing stream,
The neighings and the trumps and cries
    Were but a dream.

Traitor to life, of life betrayed:
  O, of thy mercy deep,
A dream my all, the all I ask
    Is sleep.




MOTLEY


Come, Death, I'd have a word with thee;
And thou, poor Innocency;
And love--a Lad with broken wing;
And Pity, too:
The Fool shall sing to you,
As Fools will sing.

Ay, music hath small sense,
And a tune's soon told,
And Earth is old,
And my poor wits are dense;
Yet have I secrets,--dark, my dear,
To breathe you all: Come near.
And lest some hideous listener tells,
I'll ring my bells.

They are all at war!--
Yes, yes, their bodies go
'Neath burning sun and icy star
To chaunted songs of woe,
Dragging cold cannon through a mire
Of rain and blood and spouting fire,
The new moon glinting hard on eyes
Wide with insanities!

Hush!... I use words
I hardly know the meaning of;
And the mute birds
Are glancing at Love
From out their shade of leaf and flower,
Trembling at treacheries
Which even in noonday cower.
Heed, heed not what I said
Of frenzied hosts of men,
More fools than I,
On envy, hatred fed,
Who kill, and die--
Spake I not plainly, then?
Yet Pity whispered, "Why?"

Thou silly thing, off to thy daisies go.
Mine was not news for child to know,
And Death--no ears hath. He hath supped where creep
Eyeless worms in hush of sleep;
Yet, when he smiles, the hand he draws
Athwart his grinning jaws--
Faintly the thin bones rattle, and--There, there;
Hearken how my bells in the air
Drive away care!...

Nay, but a dream I had
Of a world all mad.
Not simply happy mad like me,
Who am mad like an empty scene
Of water and willow tree,
Where the wind hath been;
But that foul Satan-mad,
Who rots in his own head,
And counts the dead,
Not honest one--and two--
But for the ghosts they were,
Brave, faithful, true,
When, head in air,
In Earth's clear green and blue
Heaven they did share
With beauty who bade them there ...
There, now! Death goes--
Mayhap I've wearied him.
Ay, and the light doth dim,
And asleep's the rose,
And tired Innocence
In dreams is hence ...
Come, Love, my lad,
Nodding that drowsy head,
'Tis time thy prayers were said!




THE MARIONETTES


Let the foul Scene proceed:
  There's laughter in the wings;
'Tis sawdust that they bleed,
  But a box Death brings.

How rare a skill is theirs
  These extreme pangs to show,
How real a frenzy wears
  Each feigner of woe!

Gigantic dins uprise!
  Even the gods must feel
A smarting of the eyes
  As these fumes upsweal.

Strange, such a Piece is free,
  While we Spectators sit,
Aghast at its agony,
  Yet absorbed in it!

Dark is the outer air,
  Cold the night draughts blow
Mutely we stare, and stare
  At the frenzied Show.

Yet heaven hath its quiet shroud
  Of deep, immutable blue--
We cry "An end!" We are bowed
  By the dread, "'Tis true!"

While the Shape who hoofs applause
  Behind our deafened ear,
Hoots--angel-wise--"the Cause!"
  And affright even fear.




TO E.T.: 1917


You sleep too well--too far away,
  For sorrowing word to soothe or wound;
Your very quiet seems to say
  How longed-for a peace you have found.

Else, had not death so lured you on,
  You would have grieved--'twixt joy and fear--
To know how my small loving son
  Had wept for you, my dear.




APRIL MOON


Roses are sweet to smell and see,
  And lilies on the stem;
But rarer, stranger buds there be,
  And she was like to them.

The little moon that April brings,
  More lovely shade than light,
That, setting, silvers lonely hills
  Upon the verge of night--

Close to the world of my poor heart
  So stole she, still and clear;
Now that she's gone, O dark, and dark,
  The solitude, the fear.




THE FOOL'S SONG


    Never, no never, listen too long,
To the chattering wind in the willow, the night bird's song.

    'Tis sad in sooth to lie under the grass,
But none too gladsome to wake and grow cold where life's shadows pass.

    Dumb the old Toll-Woman squats,
And, for every green copper battered and worn, doles out Nevers and Nots.

    I know a Blind Man, too,
Who with a sharp ear listens and listens the whole world through.

    Oh, sit we snug to our feast,
With platter and finger and spoon--and good victuals at least.




CLEAR EYES


Clear eyes do dim at last,
  And cheeks outlive their rose.
Time, heedless of the past,
  No loving-kindness knows;
Chill unto mortal lip
    Still Lethe flows.

Griefs, too, but brief while stay,
  And sorrow, being o'er,
Its salt tears shed away,
  Woundeth the heart no more.
Stealthily lave those waters
    That solemn shore.

Ah, then, sweet face burn on,
  While yet quick memory lives!
And Sorrow, ere thou art gone,
  Know that my heart forgives--
Ere yet, grown cold in peace,
    It loves not, nor grieves.




DUST TO DUST


Heavenly Archer, bend thy bow;
Now the flame of life burns low,
Youth is gone; I, too, would go.

Even Fortune leads to this:
Harsh or kind, at last she is
Murderess of all ecstasies.

Yet the spirit, dark, alone,
Bound in sense, still hearkens on
For tidings of a bliss foregone.

Sleep is well for dreamless head,
At no breath astonishèd,
From the Gardens of the Dead.

I the immortal harps hear ring,
By Babylon's river languishing.
Heavenly Archer, loose thy string.




THE THREE STRANGERS


Far are those tranquil hills,
  Dyed with fair evening's rose;
On urgent, secret errand bent,
    A traveller goes.

Approach him strangers three,
  Barefooted, cowled; their eyes
Scan the lone, hastening solitary
    With dumb surmise.

One instant in close speech
  With them he doth confer:
God-sped, he hasteneth on,
    That anxious traveller ...

I was that man--in a dream:
  And each world's night in vain
I patient wait on sleep to unveil
    Those vivid hills again.

Would that they three could know
  How yet burns on in me
Love--from one lost in Paradise--
    For their grave courtesy.




ALEXANDER


It was the Great Alexander,
  Capped with a golden helm,
Sate in the ages, in his floating ship,
    In a dead calm.

Voices of sea-maids singing
  Wandered across the deep:
The sailors labouring on their oars
    Rowed, as in sleep.

All the high pomp of Asia,
  Charmed by that siren lay,
Out of their weary and dreaming minds,
    Faded away.

Like a bold boy sate their Captain,
  His glamour withered and gone,
In the souls of his brooding mariners,
    While the song pined on.

Time, like a falling dew,
  Life, like the scene of a dream,
Laid between slumber and slumber,
    Only did seem....

O Alexander, then,
  In all us mortals too,
Wax thou not bold--too bold
    On the wave dark-blue!

Come the calm, infinite night,
  Who then will hear
Aught save the singing
    Of the sea-maids clear?




THE REAWAKENING


Green in light are the hills, and a calm wind flowing
  Filleth the void with a flood of the fragrance of Spring;
Wings in this mansion of life are coming and going,
  Voices of unseen loveliness carol and sing.

Coloured with buds of delight the boughs are swaying,
  Beauty walks in the woods, and wherever she rove
Flowers from wintry sleep, her enchantment obeying,
  Stir in the deep of her dream, reawaken to love.

Oh, now begone sullen care--this light is my seeing;
  I am the palace, and mine are its windows and walls;
Daybreak is come, and life from the darkness of being
  Springs, like a child from the womb, when the lonely one calls.




THE VACANT DAY


As I did walk in meadows green
  I heard the summer noon resound
With call of myriad things unseen
  That leapt and crept upon the ground.

High overhead the windless air
  Throbbed with the homesick coursing cry
Of swallows that did everywhere
  Wake echo in the sky.

Beside me, too, clear waters coursed
  Which willow branches, lapsing low,
Breaking their crystal gliding forced
  To sing as they did flow.

I listened; and my heart was dumb
  With praise no language could express;
Longing in vain for him to come
  Who had breathed such blessedness

On this fair world, wherein we pass
  So chequered and so brief a stay;
And yearned in spirit to learn, alas,
  What kept him still away.




THE FLIGHT


How do the days press on, and lay
  Their fallen locks at evening down,
Whileas the stars in darkness play
    And moonbeams weave a crown--

A crown of flower-like light in heaven,
  Where in the hollow arch of space
Morn's mistress dreams, and the Pleiads seven
    Stand watch about her place.

Stand watch--O days no number keep
  Of hours when this dark clay is blind.
When the world's clocks are dumb in sleep
    'Tis then I seek my kind.




FOR ALL THE GRIEF


For all the grief I have given with words
  May now a few clear flowers blow,
In the dust, and the heat, and the silence of birds,
        Where the lonely go.

For the thing unsaid that heart asked of me
  Be a dark, cool water calling--calling
To the footsore, benighted, solitary,
        When the shadows are falling.

O, be beauty for all my blindness,
  A moon in the air where the weary wend,
And dews burdened with loving-kindness
        In the dark of the end.




THE SCRIBE


What lovely things
  Thy hand hath made:
The smooth-plumed bird
  In its emerald shade,
The seed of the grass,
  The speck of stone
Which the wayfaring ant
  Stirs--and hastes on!

Though I should sit
  By some tarn in thy hills,
Using its ink
  As the spirit wills
To write of Earth's wonders,
  Its live, willed things,
Flit would the ages
  On soundless wings.
Ere unto Z
  My pen drew nigh;
Leviathan told,
  And the honey-fly:
And still would remain
  My wit to try
My worn reeds broken,
  The dark tarn dry,
All words forgotten--
  Thou, Lord, and I.




FARE WELL


When I lie where shades of darkness
Shall no more assail mine eyes,
Nor the rain make lamentation
    When the wind sighs;
How will fare the world whose wonder
Was the very proof of me?
Memory fades, must the remembered
    Perishing be?

Oh, when this my dust surrenders
Hand, foot, lip, to dust again,
May these loved and loving faces
    Please other men!
May the rustling harvest hedgerow
Still the Traveller's Joy entwine,
And as happy children gather
    Posies once mine.

Look thy last on all things lovely,
Every hour. Let no night
Seal thy sense in deathly slumber
    Till to delight
Thou have paid thy utmost blessing;
Since that all things thou wouldst praise
Beauty took from those who loved them
    In other days.







BED IN SUMMER


    In winter I get up at night,
    And dress by yellow candle light.
    In summer quite the other way,
    I have to go to bed by day.

    I have to go to bed and see
    The birds still hopping on the tree,
    Or hear the grown-up people's feet,
    Still going past me in the street.



    And does it not seem hard to you,
    When all the sky is clear and blue,
    And I should like so much to play,
    To have to go to bed by day?




YOUNG NIGHT THOUGHT


    All night long and every night,
    When my mamma puts out the light
    I see the people marching by,
    As plain as day, before my eye.

    Armies and emperors and kings,
    All carrying different kinds of things,
    And marching in so grand a way,
    You never saw the like by day.

    So fine a show was never seen
    At the great circus on the green;
    For every kind beast and man
    Is marching in that caravan.

    At first they move a little slow,
    But still the faster on they go,
    And still beside them close I keep
    Until we reach the Town of Sleep.






PIRATE STORY


    Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing.
    Three of us aboard in the basket on the lea.
    Winds are in the air, they are blowing in the spring,
    And waves are on the meadow like the waves there are at sea.

    Where shall we adventure, to-day that we're afloat,
      Wary of the weather and steering by a star?
    Shall it be to Africa, a-steering of the boat,
      To Providence, or Babylon, or off to Malabar?

    Hi! but here's a squadron a-rowing on the sea--
      Cattle on the meadow a-charging with a roar!
    Quick, and we'll escape them, they're as mad as they can be,
    The wicket is the harbor and the garden is the shore.








FAREWELL TO THE FARM


    The coach is at the door at last;
    The eager children, mounting fast
    And kissing hands, in chorus sing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    To house and garden, field and lawn,
    The meadow-gates we swung upon,
    To pump and stable, tree and swing,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    And fare you well for evermore,
    O ladder at the hayloft door,
    O hayloft where the cobwebs cling,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    Crack goes the whip, and off we go;
    The trees and houses smaller grow;
    Last, round the woody turn we swing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!








THE LAND OF COUNTERPANE


    When I was sick and lay a-bed,
    I had two pillows at my head,
    And all my toys beside me lay
    To keep me happy all the day.

    And sometimes for an hour or so
    I watched my leaden soldiers go,
    With different uniforms and drills,
    Among the bed-clothes, through the hills.

    And sometimes sent my ships in fleets
    All up and down among the sheets;
    Or brought my trees and houses out,
    And planted cities all about.

    I was the giant great and still
    That sits upon the pillow-hill,
    And sees before him, dale and plain
    The pleasant Land of Counterpane.



    Come up here, O dusty feet!
      Here is fairy bread to eat

    Here in my retiring room,
      Children, you may dine

    On the golden smell of broom
      And the shade of pine

    And when you have eaten well,
      Fairy stories hear and tell.






ESCAPE AT BEDTIME


    The lights from the parlor and kitchen shone out
      Through the blinds and the windows and bars;
    And high over head and all moving about,
      There were thousands of millions of stars.
    There ne'er were such thousands of leaves on a tree,
      Nor of people in church or the Park,
    As the crowds of the stars that looked down upon me,
      And that glittered and winked in the dark.

    The Dog, and the Plough, and the Hunter and all,
      And the star of the sailor, and Mars,
    These shone in the sky, and the pail by the wall
      Would be half full of water and stars.
    They saw me at last, and they chased me with cries,
      And they soon had me packed into bed;
    But the glory kept shining and bright in my eyes,
    And the stars going round in my head.








A GOOD PLAY


    We built a ship upon the stairs
    All made of the back-bedroom chairs,
    And filled it full of sofa pillows
    To go a-sailing on the billows.

    We took a saw and several nails,
    And water in the nursery pails;
    And Tom said, "Let us also take
    An apple and a slice of cake;"--
    Which was enough for Tom and me
    To go a-sailing on, till tea.

    We sailed along for days and days,
    And had the very best of plays;
    But Tom fell out and hurt his knee,
    So there was no one left but me.






MARCHING SONG


    Bring the comb and play upon it!
      Marching, here we come!
    Willie cocks his highland bonnet,
      Johnnie beats the drum.

    Mary Jane commands the party,
      Peter leads the rear;
    Feet in time, alert and hearty,
      Each a Grenadier!

    All in the most martial manner
      Marching double-quick;
    While the napkin like a banner
      Waves upon the stick!

    Here's enough of fame and pillage,
      Great commander Jane!
    Now that we've been round the village,
      Let's go home again.

[Illustration: "_Boats of mine a-boating_"]




WHERE GO THE BOATS?


    Dark brown is the river,
        Golden is the sand.
    It flows along for ever,
        With trees on either hand.

    Green leaves a-floating,
        Castles of the foam,
    Boats of mine a-boating--
        Where will all come home?

    On goes the river
        And out past the mill,
    Away down the valley,
        Away down the hill.

    Away down the river,
        A hundred miles or more,
    Other little children
        Shall bring my boats ashore.




THE HAYLOFT


    Through all the pleasant meadow-side
      The grass grew shoulder-high,
    Till the shining scythes went far and wide
      And cut it down to dry.

    These green and sweetly smelling crops
      They led in wagons home;
    And they piled them here in mountain-tops
      For mountaineers to roam.

    Here is Mount Clear, Mount Rusty-Nail,
      Mount Eagle and Mount High;--
    The mice that in these mountains dwell,
      No happier are than I!

    O what a joy to clamber there,
      O what a place for play,
    With the sweet, the dim, the dusty air,
      The happy hills of hay!






AUNTIE'S SKIRTS


    Whenever Auntie moves around
      Her dresses make a curious sound.
    They trail behind her up the floor,
      And trundle after through the door.






THE MOON


    The moon has a face like the clock in the hall;
    She shines on thieves on the garden wall,
    On streets and fields and harbor quays,
    And birdies asleep in the forks of the trees.

    The squalling cat and the squeaking mouse,
    The howling dog by the door of the house,
    The bat that lies in bed at noon,
    All love to be out by the light of the moon.

    But all of the things that belong to the day
    Cuddle to sleep to be out of her way;
    And flowers and children close their eyes
    Till up in the morning the sun shall rise.






THE COW


    The friendly cow all red and white,
        I love with all my heart:
    She gives me cream with all her might,
        To eat with apple-tart.

    She wanders lowing here and there,
        And yet she cannot stray,
    All in the pleasant open air,
        The pleasant light of day.

    And blown by all the winds that pass
        And wet with all the showers,
    She walks among the meadow grass
        And eats the meadow flowers.






FOREIGN LANDS


    Up into the cherry tree
    Who should climb but little me?
    I held the trunk with both my hands
    And looked abroad on foreign lands.

    I saw the next door garden lie,
    Adorned with flowers, before my eye,
    And many pleasant places more
    That I had never seen before.

    I saw the dimpling river pass
    And be the sky's blue looking-glass;
    The dusty roads go up and down
    With people tramping into town.

    If I could find a higher tree
    Farther and farther I should see,
    To where the grown-up river slips
    Into the sea among the ships.

    To where the roads on either hand
    Lead onward into fairy land,
    Where all the children dine at five,
    And all the playthings come alive.








SYSTEM


    Every night my prayers I say,
    And get my dinner every day;
    And every day that I've been good
    I get an orange after food.

    The child that is not clean and neat,
    With lots of toys and things to eat,
    He is a naughty child, I'm sure--
    Or else his dear papa is poor.






AT THE SEASIDE


    When I was down beside the sea,
    A wooden spade they gave to me
      To dig the sandy shore.
    My holes were hollow like a cup,
    In every hole the sea came up,
      Till it could hold no more.








HAPPY THOUGHT


    The world is so full of a number of things,
    I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings






THE LAND OF NOD


    From breakfast on through all the day
    At home among my friends I stay,
    But every night I go abroad
    Afar into the Land of Nod.

    All by myself I have to go,
    With none to tell me what to do--
    All alone beside the streams
    And up the mountain-sides of dreams.

    The strangest things are there for me,
    Both things to eat and things to see,
    And many frightening sights abroad
    Till morning in the Land of Nod.

    Try as I like to find the way,
    I never can get back by day,
    Nor can remember plain and clear
    The curious music that I hear.






WINDY NIGHTS


    Whenever the moon and stars are set,
      Whenever the wind is high,
    All night long in the dark and wet,
      A man goes riding by.
    Late in the night when the fires are out,



    Why does he gallop and gallop about?
    Whenever the trees are crying aloud,
      And ships are tossed at sea,
    By, on the highway, low and loud,
      By at the gallop goes he.
    By at the gallop he goes, and then
    By he comes back at the gallop again.








TIME TO RISE


    A birdie with a yellow bill
      Hopped up on the window sill,
    Cocked his shining eye and said:
    'Ain't you 'shamed, you sleepy-head?'








RAIN


    The rain is raining all around.
      It falls on field and tree,
    It rains on the umbrellas here,
      And on the ships at sea.






FOREIGN CHILDREN


    Little Indian, Sioux or Crow,
    Little frosty Eskimo,
    Little Turk or Japanee,
    O! don't you wish that you were me?

    You have seen the scarlet trees
    And the lions over seas;
    You have eaten ostrich eggs,
    And turned the turtles off their legs.

    Such a life is very fine,
    But it's not so nice as mine:
    You must often, as you trod,
    Have wearied _not_ to be abroad.

    You have curious things to eat,
    I am fed on proper meat;
    You must dwell beyond the foam,
    But I am safe and live at home.






LOOKING FORWARD


      When I am grown to man's estate
    I shall be very proud and great,
      And tell the other girls and boys
    Not to meddle with my toys.




MY SHADOW


    I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me,
    And what can be the use of him is more than I can see.
    He is very, very like me, from the heels up to the head;
    And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed.

    The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow--
    Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow;
    For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an india-rubber ball,
    And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all.

[Illustration: "_I have a little shadow._"]

    He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play,
    And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way.
    He stays so close beside me, he's a coward you can see;
    I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me!

    One morning, very early, before the sun was up,
    I 'rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup;
    But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy head,
    Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed.








THE SUN'S TRAVELS


    The sun is not a-bed when I
    At night upon my pillow lie;
    Still round the earth his way he takes,
    And morning after morning makes.

    While here at home in shining day,
    We round the sunny garden play,
    Each little Indian sleepy-head
    Is being kissed and put to bed.

    And when at eve I rise from tea,
    Day dawns beyond the Atlantic Sea;
    And all the children in the West
    Are getting up and being dressed.






LOOKING-GLASS RIVER


    Smooth it slides upon its travel,
    Here a wimple, there a gleam--
        O the clean gravel!
        O the smooth stream!

    Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
      Paven pools as clear as air--
        How a child wishes
        To live down there!



    We can see our colored faces
      Floating on the shaken pool
        Down in cool places,
        Dim and very cool;

    Till a wind or water wrinkle,
      Dipping marten, plumping trout,
        Spreads in a twinkle
        And blots all out.

    See the rings pursue each other;
      All below grows black as night,
        Just as if mother
        Had blown out the light!

    Patience, children, just a minute--
      See the spreading circles die;
        The stream and all in it
        Will clear by-and-by.






THE LAMPLIGHTER


    My tea is nearly ready and the sun has left the sky;
    It's time to take the window to see Leerie going by;
    For every night at teatime and before you take your seat,
    With lantern and with ladder he comes posting up the street.

    Now Tom would be a driver and Maria go to sea,
    And my papa's a banker and as rich as he can be;
    But I, when I am stronger and can choose what I'm to do,
    O Leerie, I'll go round at night and light the lamps with you!

    For we are very lucky, with a lamp before the door,
    And Leerie stops to light it as he lights so many more;
    And O, before you hurry by with ladder and with light,
    O Leerie, see a little child and nod to him to-night!






SINGING


    Of speckled eggs the birdie sings
      And nests among the trees;
    The sailor sings of ropes and things
      In ships upon the seas.

    The children sing in far Japan,
      The children sing in Spain;
    The organ with the organ man
      Is singing in the rain.








TRAVEL


    I should like to rise and go
    Where the golden apples grow;--
    Where below another sky
    Parrot Islands anchored lie,
    And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
    Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
    Where in sunshine reaching out
    Eastern cities, miles about,
    Are with mosque and minaret
    Among sandy gardens set,
    And the rich goods from near and far
    Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
    Where the Great Wall round China goes,
    And on one side the desert blows,
    And with bell and voice and drum,
    Cities on the other hum;--
    Where are forests, hot as fire,
    Wide as England, tall as a spire,
    Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
    And the negro hunters' huts;--
    Where the knotty crocodile
    Lies and blinks in the Nile,
    And the red flamingo flies
    Hunting fish before his eyes;--
    Where in jungles, near and far,
    Man-devouring tigers are,
    Lying close and giving ear
    Lest the hunt be drawing near,
    Or a comer-by be seen
    Swinging in a palanquin;--
    Where among the desert sands
    Some deserted city stands,
    All its children, sweep and prince,
    Grown to manhood ages since,
    Not a foot in street or house,
    Not a stir of child or mouse,
    And when kindly falls the night,
    In all the town no spark of light.
    There I'll come when I'm a man
    With a camel caravan;
    Light a fire in the gloom
    Of some dusty dining room;
    See the pictures on the walls,
    Heroes, fights and festivals
    And in a corner find the toys
    Of the old Egyptian boys.






MY BED IS A BOAT

[Illustration: _My bed is like a little boat_]


    My bed is like a little boat;
      Nurse helps me in when I embark;
    She girds me in my sailor's coat
      And starts me in the dark.

    At night, I go on board and say
      Good night to all my friends on shore;
    I shut my eyes and sail away
      And see and hear no more.

    And sometimes things to bed I take,
      As prudent sailors have to do;
    Perhaps a slice of wedding-cake,
      Perhaps a toy or two.

    All night across the dark we steer:
      But when the day returns at last
    Safe in my room, beside the pier,
      I find my vessel fast.






KEEPSAKE MILL


    Over the borders, a sin without pardon,
      Breaking the branches and crawling below,
    Out through the breach in the wall of the garden,
      Down by the banks of the river, we go.

    Here is the mill with the humming of thunder,
      Here is the weir with the wonder of foam,
    Here is the sluice with the race running under--
      Marvelous places, though handy to home!

    Sounds of the village grow stiller and stiller,
      Stiller the note of the birds on the hill;
    Dusty and dim are the eyes of the miller,
      Deaf are his ears with the moil of the mill.

    Years may go by, and the wheel in the river
      Wheel as it wheels for us, children, to-day.
    Wheel and keep roaring and foaming for ever
      Long after all of the boys are away.

    Home from the Indies and home from the ocean,
      Heroes and soldiers we all shall come home;
    Still we shall find the old mill wheel in motion,
      Turning and churning that river to foam.

    You with the bean that I gave when we quarreled,
      I with your marble of Saturday last,
    Honored and old and all gaily apparelled,
      Here we shall meet and remember the past.








THE UNSEEN PLAYMATE


    When children are playing alone on the green,
    In comes the playmate that never was seen.
    When children are happy and lonely and good,
    The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.

    Nobody heard him and nobody saw,
    His is a picture you never could draw,
    But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home,
    When children are happy and playing alone.

    He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass,
    He sings when you tinkle the musical glass;
    Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why,
    The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!

    He loves to be little, he hates to be big,
    'Tis he that inhabits the caves that you dig;
    'Tis he when you play with your soldiers of tin
    That sides with the Frenchman and never can win.

    'Tis he, when at night you go off to your bed,
    Bids you go to your sleep and not trouble your head;
    For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf,
    'Tis he will take care of your playthings himself.








MY SHIP AND I.


    O it's I that am the captain of a tidy little ship,
      Of a ship that goes a-sailing on the pond;
    And my ship it keeps a-turning all around and all about;
    But when I'm a little older, I shall find the secret out
      How to send my vessel sailing on beyond.

    For I mean to grow as little as the dolly at the helm,
      And the dolly I intend to come alive;
    And with him beside to help me, it's a-sailing I shall go,
    It's a-sailing on the water, when the jolly breezes blow
    And the vessel goes a divie-divie dive.

    O it's then you'll see me sailing through the rushes and the reeds,
      And you'll hear the water singing at the prow;
    For beside the dolly sailor, I'm to voyage and explore,
    To land upon the island where no dolly was before,
      And to fire the penny cannon in the bow.






THE WIND


    I saw you toss the kites on high
    And blow the birds about the sky;
    And all around I heard you pass,
    Like ladies' skirts across the grass--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long!
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    I saw the different things you did,
    But always you yourself you hid.
    I felt you push, I heard you call,
    I could not see yourself at all--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    O you that are so strong and cold,
    O blower, are you young or old?
    Are you a beast of field and tree,
    Or just a stronger child than me?
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

[Illustration: "_I felt you push, I heard you call._"]






A GOOD BOY


    I woke before the morning, I was happy all the day,
    I never said an ugly word, but smiled and stuck to play.

    And now at last the sun is going down behind the wood,
    And I am very happy, for I know that I've been good.

    My bed is waiting cool and fresh, with linen smooth and fair,
    And I must off to sleepsin-by, and not forget my prayer.

    I know that, till to-morrow I shall see the sun arise,
    No ugly dream shall fright my mind, no ugly sight my eyes.

    But slumber hold me tightly, till I waken in the dawn,
    And hear the thrushes singing in the lilacs round the lawn.








GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN


    Children, you are very little,
    And your bones are very brittle;
    If you would grow great and stately,
    You must try to walk sedately.

    You must still be bright and quiet,
    And content with simple diet;
    And remain, through all bewild'ring,
    Innocent and honest children.

    Happy hearts and happy faces,
    Happy play in grassy places--
    That was how, in ancient ages,
    Children grew to kings and sages.

    But the unkind and the unruly,
    And the sort who eat unduly,
    They must never hope for glory--
    Theirs is quite a different story!

    Cruel children, crying babies,
    All grow up as geese and gabies,
    Hated, as their age increases,
    By their nephews and their nieces.








PICTURE-BOOKS IN WINTER


    Summer fading, winter comes--
    Frosty mornings, tingling thumbs,
    Window robins, winter rooks,
    And the picture story-books.

    Water now is turned to stone
    Nurse and I can walk upon;
    Still we find the flowing brooks
    In the picture story-books.

    All the pretty things put by
    Wait upon the childrens' eye,
    Sheep and shepherds, trees and crooks,
    In the picture story-books.

    We may see how all things are,
    Seas and cities, near and far,
    And the flying fairies' looks,
    In the picture story-books.

    How am I to sing your praise,
    Happy chimney-corner days,
    Sitting safe in nursery nooks,
    Reading picture story-books?










THE SWING


    How do you like to go up in a swing,
      Up in the air so blue?
    Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing
      Ever a child can do!

    Up in the air and over the wall,
      Till I can see so wide,
    Rivers and trees and cattle and all
      Over the countryside--

    Till I look down on the garden green,
      Down on the roof so brown--
    Up in the air I go flying again,
      Up in the air and down!






A THOUGHT


    It is very nice to think
     The world is full of meat and drink
    With little children saying grace
     In every Christian kind of place.




ARMIES IN THE FIRE


    The lamps now glitter down the street;
    Faintly sound the falling feet
    And the blue even slowly falls
    About the garden trees and walls.

    Now in the falling of the gloom
    The red fire paints the empty room;
    And warmly on the roof it looks,
    And flickers on the backs of books.

    Armies march by tower and spire
    Of cities blazing, in the fire;--
    Till as I gaze with staring eyes,
    The armies fade, the lustre dies.

    Then once again the glow returns;
    Again the phantom city burns;
    And down the red-hot valley, lo!
    The phantom armies marching go!

    Blinking embers, tell me true
    Where are those armies marching to,
    And what the burning city is
    That crumbles in your furnaces!






MY KINGDOM


    Down by a shining water well
    I found a very little dell,
        No higher than my head.
    The heather and the gorse about
    In summer bloom were coming out,
        Some yellow and some red.

    I called the little pool a sea;
    The little hills were big to me;
        For I am very small.
    I made a boat, I made a town,
    I searched the caverns up and down,
        And named them one and all.

    And all about was mine, I said,
    The little sparrows overhead,
        The little minnows, too.
    This was the world and I was king;
    For me the bees came by to sing,
        For me the swallows flew.

    I played there were no deeper seas,
    Nor any wider plains than these,
        Nor other kings than me.
    At last I heard my mother call
    Out from the house at evenfall,
        To call me home to tea.

    And I must rise and leave my dell,
    And leave my dimpled water well,
        And leave my heather blooms.
    Alas! and as my home I neared,
    How very big my nurse appeared,
        How great and cool the rooms!








SHADOW MARCH


    All round the house is the jet-black night;
        It stares through the window-pane;
    It crawls in the corners, hiding from the light,
        And it moves with the moving flame.

    Now my little heart goes a-beating like a drum,
        With the breath of Bogie in my hair,
    And all round the candle the crooked shadows come,
        And go marching along up the stair.

    The shadow of the balusters, the shadow of the lamp,
        The shadow of the child that goes to bed--
    All the wicked shadows coming, tramp, tramp, tramp,
        With the black night overhead.






WINTER-TIME


    Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
    A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
    Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
    A blood-red orange, sets again.

    Before the stars have left the skies,
    At morning in the dark I rise;
    And shivering in my nakedness,
    By the cold candle, bathe and dress.

    Close by the jolly fire I sit
    To warm my frozen bones a bit;
    Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
    The colder countries round the door.

    When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
    Me in my comforter and cap;
    The cold wind burns my face and blows
    Its frosty pepper up my nose.

    Black are my steps on silver sod;
    Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
    And tree and house, and hill and lake,
    Are frosted like a wedding-cake.








THE LITTLE LAND


    When at home alone I sit
    And am very tired of it,
    I have just to shut my eyes
    To go sailing through the skies--
    To go sailing far away
    To the pleasant Land of play;
    To the fairy land afar
    Where the Little People are;
    Where the clover-tops are trees,
    And the rain-pools are the seas,
    And the leaves like little ships
    Sail about on tiny trips;
    And above the daisy tree
        Through the grasses,
    High o'erhead the Bumble Bee
        Hums and passes.

    In that forest to and fro
    I can wander, I can go;
    See the spider and the fly,
    And the ants go marching by
    Carrying parcels with their feet
    Down the green and grassy street.
    I can in the sorrel sit
    Where the ladybird alit.
    I can climb the jointed grass;
        And on high
    See the greater swallows pass
        In the sky,
    And the round sun rolling by
    Heeding no such things as I.

    Through that forest I can pass
    Till, as in a looking-glass,
    Humming fly and daisy tree
    And my tiny self I see,
    Painted very clear and neat
    On the rain-pool at my feet.

    Should a leaflet come to land
    Drifting near to where I stand,
    Straight I'll board that tiny boat
    Round the rain-pool sea to float.

    Little thoughtful creatures sit
    On the grassy coasts of it;
    Little things with lovely eyes
    See me sailing with surprise.
    Some are clad in armour green--
    (These have sure to battle been!)--
    Some are pied with ev'ry hue,
    Black and crimson, gold and blue;
    Some have wings and swift are gone;
    But they all look kindly on.

    When my eyes I once again
    Open, and see all things plain;
    High bare walls, great bare floor;
    Great big knobs on drawer and door;
    Great big people perched on chairs,
    Stitching tucks and mending tears,
    Each a hill that I could climb,
    And talking nonsense all the time--
       O dear me,
       That I could be
    A sailor on the rain-pool sea,
    A climber in, the clover tree,
    And just come back, a sleepy-head,
    Late at night to go to bed.








IN PORT


    Last, to the chamber where I lie
    My fearful footsteps patter nigh,
    And come from out the cold and gloom
    Into my warm and cheerful room.

    There, safe arrived, we turn about
    To keep the coming shadows out,
    And close the happy door at last
    On all the perils that we passed.

    Then, when mamma goes by to bed,
    She shall come in with tip-toe tread,
    And see me lying warm and fast
    And in the Land of Nod at last.








NIGHT AND DAY


    When the golden day is done,
      Through the closing portal,
    Child and garden, flower and sun,
      Vanish all things mortal.

    As the blinding showers fall,
      As the rays diminish,
    Under evening's cloak they all
      Roll away and vanish.

    Garden darkened, daisy shut,
      Child in bed, they slumber--
    Glow-worm in the highway rut,
      Mice among the lumber.

    In the darkness houses shine,
        Parents move with candles
    Till on all, the night divine
        Turns the bedroom handles.

    Till at last the day begins
        In the east a-breaking,
    In the hedges and the whins
        Sleeping birds a-waking.

    In the darkness shapes of things,
        Houses, trees and hedges,
    Clearer grow; and sparrow's wings
        Beat on window ledges.

    These shall wake the yawning maid,
        She the door shall open--
    Finding dew on garden glade
        And the morning broken.

    There my garden grows again
        Green and rosy painted,
    As at eve behind the pane
        From my eyes it fainted.

    Just as it was shut away,
        Toy-like, in the even,
    Here I see it glow with day
        Under glowing heaven.

    Every path and every plot,
        Every bush of roses,
    Every blue forget-me-not
        Where the dew reposes.

    'Up! they cry, 'the day is come
        On the smiling valleys;
    We have beat the morning drum;
        Playmate, join your allies!'








NEST EGGS


    Birds all the sunny day
      Flutter and quarrel
    Here in the arbor-like
      Tent of the laurel.

    Here in the fork
      The brown nest is seated;
    Four little blue eggs
      The mother keeps heated.

    While we stand watching her,
      Staring like gabies,
    Safe in each egg are the
      Bird's little babies.

    Soon the frail eggs they shall
      Chip, and upspringing
    Make all the April woods
      Merry with singing.

    Younger than we are,
      O children, and frailer,
    Soon in blue air they'll be,
      Singer and sailor.

    We, so much older,
      Taller and stronger,
    We shall look down on the
      Birdies no longer.

    They shall go flying
      With musical speeches
    High over head in the
      Tops of the beeches.

    In spite of our wisdom
      And sensible talking,
    We on our feet must go
      Plodding and walking.






THE FLOWERS


    All the names I know from nurse:
    Gardener's garters, Shepherd's purse,
    Bachelor's buttons, Lady's smock,
    And the Lady Hollyhock.

    Fairy places, fairy things,
    Fairy woods where the wild bee wings,
    Tiny trees for tiny dames--
    These must all be fairy names!

    Tiny woods below whose boughs
    Shady fairies weave a house;
    Tiny tree-tops, rose or thyme,
    Where the braver fairies climb!

    Fair are grown-up people's trees,
    But the fairest woods are these;
    Where if I were not so tall,
    I should live for good and all.






FROM A RAILWAY CARRIAGE


    Faster than fairies, faster than witches,
    Bridges and houses, hedges and ditches;
    And charging along like troops in a battle,
    All through the meadows the horses and cattle:
    All of the sights of the hill and the plain
    Fly as thick as driving rain;
    And ever again in the wink of an eye,
    Painted stations whistle by.

    Here is a child who clambers and scrambles,
    All by himself and gathering brambles;
    Here is a tramp who stands and gazes;
    And there is the green for stringing the daisies!
    Here is a cart run away in the road
    Lumping along with man and load;
    And here is a mill and there is a river,
    Each a glimpse and gone forever!






MY TREASURES


    These nuts, that I keep in the back of the nest
    Where all my lead soldiers are lying at rest,
    Were gathered in autumn by nursie and me
    In a wood with a well by the side of the sea.

    This whistle we made (and how clearly it sounds!)
    By the side of a field at the end of the grounds.
    Of a branch of a plane, with a knife of my own,
    It was nursie who made it, and nursie alone!

    The stone, with the white and the yellow and grey,
    We discovered I cannot tell _how_ far away;
    And I carried it back although weary and cold,
    For though father denies it, I'm sure it is gold.

    But of all of my treasures the last is the king,
    For there's very few children possess such a thing;
    And that is a chisel, both handle and blade,
    Which a man who was really a carpenter made.








BLOCK CITY


    What are you able to build with your blocks?
    Castles and palaces, temples and docks.
    Rain may keep raining and others go roam,
    But I can be happy and building at home.

    Let the sofa be mountains, the carpet be sea,
    There I'll establish a city for me:
    A kirk and a mill and a palace beside,
    And a harbor as well where my vessels may ride.

    Great is the palace with pillar and wall,
    A sort of a tower on the top of it all,
    And steps coming down in an orderly way
    To where my toy vessels lay safe in the bay.

    This one is sailing and that one is moored:
    Hark to the song of the sailors on board!
    And see the steps of my palace, the kings
    Coming and going with presents and things!

    Now I have done with it, down let it go!
    All in a moment the town is laid low.
    Block upon block lying scattered and free,
    What is there left of my town by the sea?

    Yet as I saw it, I see it again,
    The kirk and the palace, the ships and the men
    And as long as I live and where'er I may be,
    I'll always remember my town by the sea.








THE GARDENER


    The gardener does not love to talk,
    He makes me keep the gravel walk;
    And when he puts his tools away,
    He locks the door and takes the key.

    Away behind the currant row
    Where no one else but cook may go,
    Far in the plots, I see him dig,
    Old and serious, brown and big.

    He digs the flowers, green, red and blue,
    Nor wishes to be spoken to.
    He digs the flowers and cuts the hay,
    And never seems to want to play.

    Silly gardener! summer goes,
    And winter comes with pinching toes,
    When in the garden bare and brown
    You must lay your barrow down.

    Well now, and while the summer stays,
    To profit by these garden days,
    O how much wiser you would be
    To play at Indian wars with me!











SLEEPYHEAD


As I lay awake in the white moonlight,
I heard a faint singing in the wood,
      "Out of bed,
      Sleepyhead,
    Put your white foot, now;
      Here are we
      Beneath the tree
    Singing round the root now."

I looked out of window, in the white moonlight,
The leaves were like snow in the wood--
      "Come away,
      Child, and play
    Light with the gnomies;
      In a mound,
      Green and round,
    That's where their home is."

      "Honey sweet,
      Curds to eat,
    Cream and frumenty,
      Shells and beads,
      Poppy seeds,
    You shall have plenty."

But, as soon as I stooped in the dim moonlight
  To put on my stocking and my shoe,
The sweet shrill singing echoed faintly away,
  And the grey of the morning peeped through,
And instead of the gnomies there came a red robin
  To sing of the buttercups and dew.




BLUEBELLS


Where the bluebells and the wind are,
    Fairies in a ring I spied,
And I heard a little linnet
    Singing near beside.

Where the primrose and the dew are--
    Soon were sped the fairies all:
Only now the green turf freshens,
    And the linnets call.




LOVELOCKS


I watched the Lady Caroline
Bind up her dark and beauteous hair;
Her face was rosy in the glass,
And 'twixt the coils her hands would pass,
    White in the candleshine.

Her bottles on the table lay,
Stoppered, yet sweet of violet;
Her image in the mirror stooped
To view those locks as lightly looped
    As cherry boughs in May.

The snowy night lay dim without,
I heard the Waits their sweet song sing;
The window smouldered keen with frost;
Yet still she twisted, sleeked and tossed
    Her beauteous hair about.




TARTARY


If I were Lord of Tartary,
  Myself and me alone,
My bed should be of ivory,
  Of beaten gold my throne;
And in my court would peacocks flaunt,
And in my forests tigers haunt,
And in my pools great fishes slant
  Their fins athwart the sun.

If I were Lord of Tartary,
  Trumpeters every day
To every meal should summon me,
  And in my courtyard bray;
And in the evening lamps would shine,
Yellow as honey, red as wine,
While harp, and flute, and mandoline,
  Made music sweet and gay.

If I were Lord of Tartary,
  I'd wear a robe of beads,
White, and gold, and green they'd be--
  And clustered thick as seeds;
And ere should wane the morning-star,
I'd don my robe and scimitar,
And zebras seven should draw my car
  Through Tartary's dark glades.

Lord of the fruits of Tartary,
  Her rivers silver-pale!
Lord of the hills of Tartary,
  Glen, thicket, wood, and dale!
Her flashing stars, her scented breeze,
Her trembling lakes, like foamless seas,
Her bird-delighting citron-trees
  In every purple vale!




THE BUCKLE


I had a silver buckle,
  I sewed it on my shoe,
And 'neath a sprig of mistletoe
  I danced the evening through.

I had a bunch of cowslips,
  I hid them in a grot,
In case the elves should come by night
  And me remember not.

I had a yellow riband,
  I tied it in my hair,
That, walking in the garden,
  The birds might see it there.

I had a secret laughter,
  I laughed it near the wall:
Only the ivy and the wind
  May tell of it at all.




THE HARE


In the black furrow of a field
  I saw an old witch-hare this night;
And she cocked a lissome ear,
  And she eyed the moon so bright,
And she nibbled of the green;
  And I whispered "Wh-s-st! witch-hare,"
Away like a ghostie o'er the field
  She fled, and left the moonlight there.




BUNCHES OF GRAPES


"Bunches of grapes," says Timothy;
"Pomegranates pink," says Elaine;
"A junket of cream and a cranberry tart
    For me," says Jane.

"Love-in-a-mist," says Timothy;
"Primroses pale," says Elaine;
"A nosegay of pinks and mignonette
    For me," says Jane.

"Chariots of gold," says Timothy;
"Silvery wings," says Elaine;
"A bumpity ride in a waggon of hay
    For me," says Jane.




JOHN MOULDY


I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
  Deep down twenty steps of stone;
In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
    Smiling there alone.

He read no book, he snuffed no candle;
  The rats ran in, the rats ran out;
And far and near, the drip of water
    Went whispering about.

The dusk was still, with dew a-falling,
  I saw the Dog Star bleak and grim,
I saw a slim brown rat of Norway
    Creep over him.

I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
  Deep down twenty steps of stone;
In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
    Smiling there alone.




THE FLY


How large unto the tiny fly
  Must little things appear!--
A rosebud like a feather bed,
  Its prickle like a spear;

A dewdrop like a looking-glass,
  A hair like golden wire;
The smallest grain of mustard-seed
  As fierce as coals of fire;

A loaf of bread, a lofty hill;
  A wasp, a cruel leopard;
And specks of salt as bright to see
  As lambkins to a shepherd.




SONG


O for a moon to light me home!
  O for a lanthorn green!
For those sweet stars the Pleiades,
That glitter in the darkling trees;
  O for a lovelorn taper! O
  For a lanthorn green!

O for a frock of tartan!
  O for clear, wild grey eyes!
For fingers light as violets,
'Neath branches that the blackbird frets;
  O for a thistly meadow! O
  For clear, wild grey eyes!

O for a heart like almond boughs!
  O for sweet thoughts like rain!
O for first-love like fields of grey
Shut April-buds at break of day!
  O for a sleep like music!
  Dreams still as rain!




I SAW THREE WITCHES


    I saw three witches
    That bowed down like barley,
And straddled their brooms 'neath a louring sky,
    And, mounting a storm-cloud,
    Aloft on its margin,
Stood black in the silver as up they did fly.

    I saw three witches
    That mocked the poor sparrows
They carried in cages of wicker along,
    Till a hawk from his eyrie
    Swooped down like an arrow,
Smote on the cages, and ended their song.

    I saw three witches
    That sailed in a shallop,
All turning their heads with a snickering smile,
    Till a bank of green osiers
    Concealed their grim faces,
Though I heard them lamenting for many a mile.

    I saw three witches
    Asleep in a valley,
Their heads in a row, like stones in a flood,
    Till the moon, creeping upward,
    Looked white through the valley,
And turned them to bushes in bright scarlet bud.




THE SILVER PENNY


"Sailorman, I'll give to you
  My bright silver penny,
If out to sea you'll sail me
  And my dear sister Jenny."

"Get in, young sir, I'll sail ye
  And your dear sister Jenny,
But pay she shall her golden locks
  Instead of your penny."

They sail away, they sail away,
  O fierce the winds blew!
The foam flew in clouds,
  And dark the night grew!

And all the wild sea-water
  Climbed steep into the boat;
Back to the shore again
  Sail they will not.

Drowned is the sailorman,
  Drowned is sweet Jenny,
And drowned in the deep sea
  A bright silver penny.




THE RAINBOW


I saw the lovely arch
  Of Rainbow span the sky,
The gold sun burning
  As the rain swept by.

In bright-ringed solitude
  The showery foliage shone
One lovely moment,
  And the Bow was gone.




THE FAIRIES DANCING


I heard along the early hills,
  Ere yet the lark was risen up,
Ere yet the dawn with firelight fills
  The night-dew of the bramble-cup,--
I heard the fairies in a ring
  Sing as they tripped a lilting round
Soft as the moon on wavering wing.
  The starlight shook as if with sound,
As if with echoing, and the stars
  Prankt their bright eyes with trembling gleams;
While red with war the gusty Mars
  Rained upon earth his ruddy beams.
He shone alone, low down the West,
  While I, behind a hawthorn-bush,
Watched on the fairies flaxen-tressed
  The fires of the morning flush.
Till, as a mist, their beauty died,
  Their singing shrill and fainter grew;
And daylight tremulous and wide
  Flooded the moorland through and through;
Till Urdon's copper weathercock
  Was reared in golden flame afar,
And dim from moonlit dreams awoke
  The towers and groves of Arroar.




REVERIE


When slim Sophia mounts her horse
  And paces down the avenue,
It seems an inward melody
      She paces to.

Each narrow hoof is lifted high
  Beneath the dark enclustering pines,
A silver ray within his bit
      And bridle shines.

His eye burns deep, his tail is arched,
  And streams upon the shadowy air,
The daylight sleeks his jetty flanks,
      His mistress' hair.

Her habit flows in darkness down,
  Upon the stirrup rests her foot,
Her brow is lifted, as if earth
      She heeded not.

'Tis silent in the avenue,
  The sombre pines are mute of song,
The blue is dark, there moves no breeze
      The boughs among.

When slim Sophia mounts her horse
  And paces down the avenue,
It seems an inward melody
      She paces to.




THE THREE BEGGARS


'Twas autumn daybreak gold and wild,
  While past St. Ann's grey tower they shuffled,
Three beggars spied a fairy-child
    In crimson mantle muffled.

The daybreak lighted up her face
  All pink, and sharp, and emerald-eyed;
She looked on them a little space,
    And shrill as hautboy cried:--

"O three tall footsore men of rags
  Which walking this gold morn I see,
What will ye give me from your bags
    For fairy kisses three?"

The first, that was a reddish man,
  Out of his bundle takes a crust:
"La, by the tombstones of St. Ann,
    There's fee, if fee ye must!"

The second, that was a chestnut man,
  Out of his bundle draws a bone:
"Lo, by the belfry of St. Ann,
    And all my breakfast gone!"

The third, that was a yellow man,
  Out of his bundle picks a groat,
"La, by the Angel of St. Ann,
    And I must go without."

That changeling, lean and icy-lipped,
  Touched crust, and bone, and groat, and lo!
Beneath her finger taper-tipped
    The magic all ran through.

Instead of crust a peacock pie,
  Instead of bone sweet venison,
Instead of groat a white lily
    With seven blooms thereon.

And each fair cup was deep with wine:
  Such was the changeling's charity,
The sweet feast was enough for nine,
    But not too much for three.

O toothsome meat in jelly froze!
  O tender haunch of elfin stag!
O rich the odour that arose!
    O plump with scraps each bag!

There, in the daybreak gold and wild,
  Each merry-hearted beggar man
Drank deep unto the fairy child,
    And blessed the good St. Ann.




THE DWARF


"Now, Jinnie, my dear, to the dwarf be off,
  That lives in Barberry Wood,
And fetch me some honey, but be sure you don't laugh,--
  He hates little girls that are rude, are rude,
    He hates little girls that are rude."

Jane tapped at the door of the house in the wood,
  And the dwarf looked over the wall,
He eyed her so queer, 'twas as much as she could
  To keep from laughing at all, at all,
    To keep from laughing at all.

His shoes down the passage came clod, clod, clod,
  And when he opened the door,
He croaked so harsh, 'twas as much as she could
  To keep from laughing the more, the more,
    To keep from laughing the more.

As there, with his bushy red beard, he stood,
  Pricked out to double its size,
He squinted so cross, 'twas as much as she could
  To keep the tears out of her eyes, her eyes,
    To keep the tears out of her eyes.

He slammed the door, and went clod, clod, clod,
  But while in the porch she bides,
He squealed so fierce, 'twas as much as she could
  To keep from cracking her sides, her sides,
    To keep from cracking her sides.

He threw a pumpkin over the wall,
  And melons and apples beside,
So thick in the air that to see them all fall,
  She laughed, and laughed, till she cried, cried, cried;
    Jane laughed and laughed till she cried.

Down fell her teardrops a pit-apat-pat,
  And red as a rose she grew;--
"Kah! kah," said the dwarf, "is it crying you're at?
  It's the very worst thing you could do, do, do,
    It's the very worst thing you could do."

He slipped like a monkey up into a tree,
  He shook her down cherries like rain;
"See now," says he, cheeping, "a blackbird I be,
  Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again--gain--gain,
    Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again."

Ah me! what a strange, what a gladsome duet
  From a house in the deeps of a wood!
Such shrill and such harsh voices never met yet
A-laughing as loud as they could, could, could,
    A-laughing as loud as they could.

Come Jinnie, come dwarf, cocksparrow, and bee,
  There's a ring gaudy-green in the dell,
Sing, sing, ye sweet cherubs, that flit in the tree;
  La! who can draw tears from a well, well, well,
    Who ever drew tears from a well!




ALULVAN

The sun is clear of bird and cloud,
  The grass shines windless, grey and still,
In dusky ruin the owl dreams on,
  The cuckoo echoes on the hill;
Yet soft along Alulvan's walks
    The ghost at noonday stalks.

His eyes in shadow of his hat
  Stare on the ruins of his house;
His cloak, up-fastened with a brooch,
  Of faded velvet grey as mouse,
Brushes the roses as he goes:
    Yet wavers not one rose.

The wild birds in a cloud fly up
  From their sweet feeding in the fruit;
The droning of the bees and flies
  Rises gradual as a lute;
Is it for fear the birds are flown,
    And shrills the insect-drone?

Thick is the ivy over Alulvan,
  And crisp with summer-heat its turf;
Far, far across its empty pastures
  Alulvan's sands are white with surf:
And he himself is grey as the sea,
    Watching beneath an elder-tree.

All night the fretful, shrill Banshee
  Lurks in the ivy's dark festoons,
Calling for ever, o'er garden and river,
  Through magpie changing of the moons:
"Alulvan, O, alas! Alulvan,
  The doom of lone Alulvan!"




THE PEDLAR


There came a pedlar to an evening house;
Sweet Lettice, from her lattice looking down,
Wondered what man he was, so curious
His black hair dangled on his tattered gown:
Then lifts he up his face, with glittering eyes,--
"What will you buy, sweetheart?--Here's honeycomb,
And mottled pippins, and sweet mulberry pies,
Comfits and peaches, snowy cherry bloom,
To keep in water for to make night sweet:
All that you want, sweetheart,--come, taste and eat!"

Even with his sugared words, returned to her
The clear remembrance of a gentle voice:
"And O! my child, should ever a flatterer
Tap with his wares, and promise of all joys,
And vain sweet pleasures that on earth may be,
Seal up your ears, sing some old happy song,
Confuse his magic who is all mockery:
His sweets are death." Yet, still how she doth long
But just to taste, then shut the lattice tight,
And hide her eyes from the delicious sight!

"What must I pay?" she whispered. "Pay!" says he,
"Pedlar I am who through this wood to roam,
One lock of her hair is gold enough for me,
For apple, peach, comfit, or honeycomb!"
But from her bough a drowsy squirrel cried,
"Trust him not, Lettice, trust, oh trust him not!"
And many another woodland tongue beside
Rose softly in the silence--"Trust him not!"
Then cried the Pedlar in a bitter voice,
"What, in the thicket, is this idle noise?"

A late, harsh blackbird smote him with her wings,
As through the glade, dark in the dim, she flew;
Yet still the Pedlar his old burden sings,--
"What, pretty sweetheart, shall I show to you?
Here's orange ribands, here's a string of pearls,
Here's silk of buttercup and pansy glove,
A pin of tortoiseshell for windy curls,
A box of silver, scented sweet with clove:
Come now," he says, with dim and lifted face,
"I pass not often such a lonely place."

"Pluck not a hair!" a hidden rabbit cried,
"With but one hair he'll steal thy heart away,
Then only sorrow shall thy lattice hide:
Go in! all honest pedlars come by day."
There was dead silence in the drowsy wood;
"Here's syrup for to lull sweet maids to sleep;
And bells for dreams, and fairy wine and food
All day thy heart in happiness to keep";--
And now she takes the scissors on her thumb,--
"O, then, no more unto my lattice come!"

Sad is the sound of weeping in the wood!
Now only night is where the Pedlar was;
And bleak as frost upon a quickling bud
His magic steals in darkness, O alas!
Why all the summer doth sweet Lettice pine?
And, ere the wheat is ripe, why lies her gold
Hid 'neath fresh new-plucked sprigs of eglantine?
Why all the morning hath the cuckoo tolled,
Sad, to and fro, in green and secret ways,
With solemn bells the burden of his days?

And, in the market-place, what man is this
Who wears a loop of gold upon his breast,
Stuck heartwise; and whose glassy flatteries
Take all the townsfolk ere they go to rest
Who come to buy and gossip? Doth his eye
Remember a face lovely in a wood?
O people! hasten, hasten, do not buy
His woeful wares; the bird of grief doth brood
There where his heart should be; and far away
There mourns long sorrowfulness this happy day.




THE OGRE


'Tis moonlight on Trebarwith Vale,
  And moonlight on an Ogre keen,
Who, prowling hungry through the dale,
  A lone cottage hath seen.

Small, with thin smoke ascending up,
  Three casements and a door--
The Ogre eager is to tap,
  And here seems dainty store.

Sweet as a larder to a mouse,
  So to him staring down,
Seemed the small-windowed moonlit house,
  With jasmine overgrown.

He snorted, as the billows snort
  In darkness of the night;
Betwixt his lean locks tawny-swart,
  He glowered on the sight.

Into the garden sweet with peas
  He put his wooden shoe,
And bending back the apple trees
  Crept covetously through;

Then, stooping, with a gloating eye
  Stared through the lattice small,
And spied two children which did lie
  Asleep, against the wall.

Into their dreams no shadow fell
  Of his disastrous thumb
Groping discreet, and gradual,
  Across the quiet room.

But scarce his nail had scraped the cot
  Wherein these children lay,
As if his malice were forgot,
  It suddenly did stay.

For faintly in the ingle-nook
  He heard a cradle-song,
That rose into his thoughts and woke
  Terror them among.

For she who in the kitchen sat
  Darning by the fire,
Guileless of what he would be at,
  Sang sweet as wind or wire:--

"Lullay, thou little tiny child,
  By-by, lullay, lullie;
Jesu in glory, meek and mild,
  This night remember thee!

"Fiend, witch, and goblin, foul and wild,
  He deems them smoke to be;
Lullay, thou little tiny child,
  By-by, lullay, lullie!"

The Ogre lifted up his eyes
  Into the moon's pale ray,
And gazed upon her leopard-wise,
  Cruel and clear as day;

He snarled in gluttony and fear--
  "The wind blows dismally--
Jesu in storm my lambs be near,
  By-by, lullay, lullie!"

And like a ravenous beast which sees
  The hunter's icy eye,
So did this wretch in wrath confess
  Sweet Jesu's mastery.

Lightly he drew his greedy thumb
  From out that casement pale,
And strode, enormous, swiftly home,
  Whinnying down the dale.




DAME HICKORY


  "Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's sticks for your fire,
  Furze-twigs, and oak-twigs,
    And beech-twigs, and briar!"
But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
She found 'twas the voice of the False Faerie.

  "Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's meat for your broth,
  Goose-flesh, and hare's flesh,
    And pig's trotters both!"
But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
She found 'twas the voice of the False Faerie.

 "Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's a wolf at your door,
  His teeth grinning white,
    And his tongue wagging sore!"
"Nay!" said Dame Hickory, "ye False Faerie!
But a wolf 'twas indeed, and famished was he.

  "Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's buds for your tomb,
Bramble, and lavender,
    And rosemary bloom!"
"Wh-s-st!" said Dame Hickory, "ye False Faerie,
Ye cry like a wolf, ye do, and trouble poor me."




THE PILGRIM


"Shall we carry now your bundle,
You old grey man?
Over hill and dale and meadow
Lighter than an owlet's shadow
We will whirl it through the air,
Through blue regions shrill and bare,
So you may in comfort fare--
Shall we carry now your bundle,
    You old grey man?"

The Pilgrim lifted up his eyes
And saw three fiends, in the skies,
Stooping o'er that lonely place
    Evil in form and face.

"Nay," he answered, "leave me, leave me,
  Ye three wild fiends!
Far it is my feet must wander,
And my city lieth yonder
I must bear my bundle alone,
    Till the day be done."
The fiends stared down with leaden eye,
Fanning the chill air duskily,
'Twixt their hoods they stoop and cry:--

"Shall we smooth the path before you,
    You old grey man?
Sprinkle it green with gilded showers,
Strew it o'er with painted flowers,
Lure bright birds to sing and flit
In the honeyed airs of it?
Shall we smooth the path before you,
    Grey old man?"

"O, 'tis better silence, silence,
    Ye three wild fiends!
Footsore am I, faint and weary,
Dark the way, forlorn and dreary,
Beaten of wind, torn of briar,
Smitten of rain, parched with fire:
O, silence, silence, silence,
    Ye three wild fiends!"

It seemed a smoke obscured the air,
Bright lightning quivered in the gloom,
And a faint voice of thunder spake
Far in the lone hill-hollows--"Come!"
Then, half in fury, half in dread,
The fiends drew closer down, and said:

"Nay, thou stubborn fond old man,
    Hearken awhile!
Thorn, and dust, and ice and heat,
Tarry now, sit down and eat:
Heat, and ice, and dust and thorn;
Stricken, footsore, parched, forlorn--
Juice of purple grape shall be
Youth and solace unto thee.
Music of tambour, wire and wind,
Ease shall bring to heart and mind;
Wonderful sweet mouths shall sigh
Languishing and lullaby;
Turn then! Curse the dream that lures thee;
Turn thee, ere too late it be,
Lest thy three true friends grow weary
    Of comforting thee!"

The Pilgrim crouches terrified
As stooping hood, and glassy face,
Gloating, evil, side by side,
Terror and hate brood o'er the place;
He flings his withered hands on high
With a bitter, breaking cry:--
"Leave me, leave me, leave me, leave me,
    Ye three wild fiends!
If I lay me down in slumber,
Then I lay me down in wrath;
If I stir not in dark dreaming,
Then I wither in my path;
If I hear sweet voices singing,
'Tis a demon's lullaby:
And, in 'hideous storm and terror,'
    Wake but to die."

And even as he spake, on high
Arrows of sunlight pierced the sky.
Bright streamed the rain. O'er burning snow
From hill to hill a wondrous bow
Of colour and fire trembled in air,
Painting its heavenly beauty there.
Wild flapped each fiend a batlike hood
Against that 'frighting light, and stood
Beating the windless rain, and then
Rose heavy and slow with cowering head,
Circled in company again,
And into darkness fled.

Marvellous sweet it was to hear
The waters gushing loud and clear;
Marvellous happy it was to be
Alone, and yet not solitary;
Oh, out of terror and dark to come
    In sight of home!




THE GAGE


"Lady Jane, O Lady Jane!
Your hound hath broken bounds again,
  And chased my timorous deer, O;
    If him I see,
    That hour he'll dee;
  My brakes shall be his bier, O."

"Hoots! lord, speak not so proud to me!
My hound, I trow, is fleet and free,
  He's welcome to your deer, O;
    Shoot, shoot you may,
    He'll gang his way,
  Your threats we nothing fear, O."

He's fetched him in, he's laid him low,
Drips his lifeblood red and slow,
  Darkens his dreary eye, O;
   "Here is your beast,
    And now at least
  My herds in peace shall lie, O."

"'In peace!' my lord, O mark me well!
For what my jolly hound befell
  You shall sup twenty-fold, O!
    For every tooth
    Of his, in sooth,
  A stag in pawn, I hold, O.

"Huntsman and horn, huntsman and horn,
Shall scour your heaths and coverts lorn,
  Braying 'em shrill and clear, O;
    But lone and still
    Shall lift each hill,
  Each valley wan and sere, O.

"Ride up you may, ride down you may,
Lonely or trooped, by night or day,
  My hound shall haunt you ever:
    Bird, beast, and game
    Shall dread the same,
  The wild fish of your river."

Her cheek burns angry as the rose,
Her eye with wrath and pity flows:
  He gazes fierce and round, O--
    "Dear Lord!" he says,
    "What loveliness
  To waste upon a hound, O.

"I'd give my stags, my hills and dales,
My stormcocks and my nightingales
  To have undone this deed, O;
    For deep beneath
    My heart is death
  Which for her love doth bleed, O."

He wanders up, he wanders down,
On foot, a-horse, by night and noon:
  His lands are bleak and drear, O;
    Forsook his dales
    Of nightingales,
  Forsook his moors of deer, O,

Forsook his heart, ah me! of mirth;
There's nothing gladsome left on earth;
  All thoughts and dreams seem vain, O,
    Save where remote
    The moonbeams gloat,
  And sleeps the lovely Jane, O.

Until an even when lone he went,
Gnawing his beard in dreariment--
  Lo! from a thicket hidden,
    Lovely as flower
    In April hour,
  Steps forth a form unbidden.

"Get ye now down, my lord, to me!
I'm troubled so I'm like to dee,"
  She cries, 'twixt joy and grief, O;
    "The hound is dead,
    When all is said,
  But love is past belief, O.

"Nights, nights I've lain your lands to see,
Forlorn and still--and all for me,
  All for a foolish curse, O;
    Now here am I
    Come out to die--
  To live unloved is worse, O!"

In faith, this lord, in that lone dale,
Hears now a sweeter nightingale,
  And lairs a tenderer deer, O;
    His sorrow goes
    Like mountain snows
  In waters sweet and clear, O!

What ghostly hound is this that fleet
Comes fawning to his mistress' feet,
  And courses round his master?
    How swiftly love
    May grief remove,
  How happy make disaster!

Now here he smells, now there he smells,
Winding his voice along the dells,
  Till grey flows up the morn, O
    Then hies again
    To Lady Jane
  No longer now forlorn, O.

Ay, as it were a bud, did break
To loveliness for her love's sake,
  So she in beauty moving
    Rides at his hand
    Across his land,
  Beloved as well as loving.




AS LUCY WENT A-WALKING


As Lucy went a-walking one morning cold and fine,
There sate three crows upon a bough, and three times three is nine:
Then "O!" said Lucy, in the snow, "it's very plain to see
A witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me."

Then slept she light and heedfully across the frozen snow,
And plucked a bunch of elder-twigs that near a pool did grow:
And, by and by, she comes to seven shadows in one place
Stretched black by seven poplar-trees against the sun's bright face.

She looks to left, she looks to right, and in the midst she sees
A little pool of water clear and frozen 'neath the trees;
Then down beside its margent in the crusty snow she kneels,
And hears a magic belfry a-ringing with sweet bells.

Clear sang the faint far merry peal, then silence on the air,
And icy-still the frozen pool and poplars standing there:
Then lo! as Lucy turned her head and looked along the snow
She sees a witch--a witch she sees, come frisking to and fro.

Her scarlet, buckled shoes they clicked, her heels a-twinkling high;
With mistletoe her steeple-hat bobbed as she capered by;
But never a dint, or mark, or print, in the whiteness for to see,
Though danced she high, though danced she fast, though danced she lissomely.

It seemed 'twas diamonds in the air, or little flakes of frost;
It seemed 'twas golden smoke around, or sunbeams lightly tossed;
It seemed an elfin music like to reeds and warblers rose:
"Nay!" Lucy said, "it is the wind that through the branches flows."

And as she peeps, and as she peeps, 'tis no more one, but three,
And eye of bat, and downy wing of owl within the tree,
And the bells of that sweet belfry a-pealing as before,
And now it is not three she sees, and now it is not four--

"O! who are ye," sweet Lucy cries, "that in a dreadful ring,
All muffled up in brindled shawls, do caper, frisk, and spring?"
"A witch, and witches, one and nine," they straight to her reply,
And looked upon her narrowly, with green and needle eye.

Then Lucy sees in clouds of gold green cherry trees upgrow,
And bushes of red roses that bloomed above the snow;
She smells, all faint, the almond-boughs blowing so wild and fair,
And doves with milky eyes ascend fluttering in the air.

Clear flowers she sees, like tulip buds, go floating by like birds,
With wavering tips that warbled sweetly strange enchanted words;
And, as with ropes of amethyst, the boughs with lamps were hung,
And clusters of green emeralds like fruit upon them clung.

"O witches nine, ye dreadful nine, O witches seven and three!
Whence come these wondrous things that I this Christmas morning see?"
But straight, as in a clap, when she of Christmas says the word,
Here is the snow, and there the sun, but never bloom nor bird;

Nor warbling flame, nor gloaming-rope of amethyst there shows,
Nor bunches of green emeralds, nor belfry, well, and rose,
Nor cloud of gold, nor cherry-tree, nor witch in brindled shawl,
But like a dream that vanishes, so vanished were they all.

When Lucy sees, and only sees three crows upon a bough,
And earthly twigs, and bushes hidden white in driven snow,
Then "O!" said Lucy, "three times three is nine--I plainly see
Some witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me."




THE ENGLISHMAN


I met a sailor in the woods,
  A silver ring wore he,
His hair hung black, his eyes shone blue,
  And thus he said to me:--

"What country, say, of this round earth,
  What shore of what salt sea,
Be this, my son, I wander in,
  And looks so strange to me?"

Says I, "O foreign sailorman,
  In England now you be,
This is her wood, and there her sky,
  And that her roaring sea."

He lifts his voice yet louder,
  "What smell be this," says he,
"My nose on the sharp morning air
  Snuffs up so greedily?"

Says I, "It is wild roses
  Do smell so winsomely,
And winy briar, too," says I,
  "That in these thickets be."

"And oh!" says he, "what leetle bird
  Is singing in yon high tree,
So every shrill and long-drawn note
  Like bubbles breaks in me?"

Says I, "It is the mavis
  That perches in the tree,
And sings so shrill, and sings so sweet,
  When dawn comes up the sea."

At which he fell a-musing,
  And fixed his eye on me,
As one alone 'twixt light and dark
  A spirit thinks to see.

"England!" he whispers soft and harsh,
  "England!" repeated he,
"And briar, and rose, and mavis,
  A-singing in yon high tree.

"Ye speak me true, my leetle son,
  So--so, it came to me,
A-drifting landwards on a spar,
  And grey dawn on the sea.

"Ay, ay, I could not be mistook;
  I knew them leafy trees,
I knew that land so witchery sweet,
  And that old noise of seas.

"Though here I've sailed a score of years,
  And heard 'em, dream or wake,
Lap small and hollow 'gainst my cheek,
  On sand and coral break;

"'Yet now,' my leetle son, says I,
  A-drifting on the wave,
'That land I see so safe and green,
  Is England, I believe.

"'And that there wood is English wood,
  And this here cruel sea,
The selfsame old blue ocean
  Years gone remembers me.

"'A-sitting with my bread and butter
  Down ahind yon chitterin' mill;
And this same Marinere'--(that's me),
  'Is that same leetle Will!--

"'That very same wee leetle Will
  Eating his bread and butter there,
A-looking on the broad blue sea
  Betwixt his yaller hair!'

"And here be I, my son, thrown up
  Like corpses from the sea,
Ships, stars, winds, tempests, pirates past,
  Yet leetle Will I be!"

He said no more, that sailorman,
  But in a reverie
Stared like the figure of a ship
  With painted eyes to sea.




THE PHANTOM


"Upstairs in the large closet, child,
  This side the blue room door,
Is an old Bible, bound in leather,
  Standing upon the floor;

"Go with this taper, bring it me;
  Carry it so, upon your arm;
It is the book on many a sea
  Hath stilled the waves' alarm."

Late the hour, dark the night,
  The house is solitary;
Feeble is a taper's light
  To light poor Ann to see.

Her eyes are yet with visions bright
  Of sylph and river, flower and fay,
Now through a narrow corridor
  She goes her lonely way.

Vast shadows on the heedless walls
  Gigantic loom, stoop low:
Each little hasty footfall calls
  Hollowly to and fro.

In the cold solitude her heart
  Remembers sorrowfully
White winters when her mother was
  Her loving company.

Now in the dark clear glass she sees
  A taper, mocking hers,--
A phantom face of light blue eyes,
  Reflecting phantom fears.

Around her loom the vacant rooms,
  Wind the upward stairs,
She climbs on into a loneliness
  Only her taper shares.

Out in the dark a cold wind stirs,
  At every window sighs;
A waning moon peers small and chill
  From out the cloudy skies,

Casting faint tracery on the walls;
  So stony still the house
From cellar to attic rings the shrill
  Squeak of the hungry mouse.

Her grandmother is deaf with age;
  A garden of moonless trees
Would answer not though she should cry
  In anguish on her knees.

So that she scarce can breathe--so fast
  Her pent up heart doth beat--
When, faint along the corridor,
  Falleth the sound of feet:--

Sounds lighter than silk slippers make
  Upon a ballroom floor, when sweet
Violin and 'cello wake
  Music for twirling feet.

O! 'neath an old unfriendly roof,
  What shapes may not conceal
Their faces in the open day,
  At night abroad to steal?

Even her taper seems with fear
  To languish small and blue;
Far in the woods the winter wind
  Runs whistling through.

A dreadful cold plucks at each hair,
  Her mouth is stretched to cry,
But sudden, with a gush of joy,
  It narrows to a sigh.

It is a phantom child which comes
  Soft through the corridor,
Singing an old forgotten song,
  This ancient burden bore:--

"Thorn, thorn, I wis,
And roses twain,
  A red rose and a white,
Stoop in the blossom, bee, and kiss
  A lonely child good-night.

"Swim fish, sing bird,
And sigh again,
  I that am lost am lone,
Bee in the blossom never stirred
  Locks hid beneath a stone!"--

Her eye was of the azure fire
  That hovers in wintry flame;
Her raiment wild and yellow as furze
  That spouteth out the same;

And in her hand she bore no flower,
  But on her head a wreath
Of faded flowers that did yet
  Smell sweetly after death....

Gloomy with night the listening walls
  Are now that she is gone,
Albeit this solitary child
  No longer seems alone.

Fast though her taper dwindles down,
  Heavy and thick the tome,
A beauty beyond fear to dim
  Haunts now her alien home.

Ghosts in the world, malignant, grim,
  Vex many a wood and glen,
And house and pool--the unquiet ghosts,
  Of dead and restless men.

But in her grannie's house this spirit--
  A child as lone as she--
Pining for love not found on earth,
  Ann dreams again to see.

Seated upon her tapestry stool,
  Her fairy-book laid by,
She gazes into the fire, knowing
  She has sweet company.




THE MILLER AND HIS SON


A twangling harp for Mary,
  A silvery flute for John,
And now we'll play, the livelong day,
  "The Miller and his Son."...

"The Miller went a-walking
  All in the forest high,
He sees three doves a-flitting
  Against the dark blue sky:

"Says he, 'My son, now follow
  These doves so white and free,
That cry above the forest,
  And surely cry to thee.'

"'I go, my dearest Father,
  But O! I sadly fear,
These doves so white will lead me far,
  But never bring me near.'

"He kisses the Miller,
  He cries, 'Awhoop to ye!'
And straightway through the forest
  Follows the wood-doves three.

"There came a sound of weeping
  To the Miller in his Mill:
Red roses in a thicket
  Bloomed over near his wheel;

"Three stars shone wild and brightly
  Above the forest dim:
But never his dearest son
  Returns again to him.

"The cuckoo shall call 'Cuckoo!'
  In vain along the vale--
The linnet, and the blackbird,
  The mournful nightingale;

"The Miller hears and sees not,
  Thinking of his son;
His toppling wheel is silent;
  His grinding done.

"'You doves so white,' he weepeth,
  'You roses on the tree,
You stars that shine so brightly,
  You shine in vain for me!

"'I bade him follow, follow!'
  He said, 'O Father dear,
These doves so white will lead me far
  But never bring me near.'"...

A twangling harp for Mary,
  A silvery flute for John,
And now we'll play, the livelong day,
  "The Miller and his Son."




DOWN-ADOWN-DERRY


Down-adown-derry,
  Sweet Annie Maroon,
Gathering daisies
  In the meadows of Doone,
Hears a shrill piping,
  Elflike and free,
Where the waters go brawling
  In rills to the sea;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  Sweet Annie Maroon,
Through the green grasses
  Peeps softly; and soon
Spies under green willows
  A fairy whose song
Like the smallest of bubbles
  Floats bobbing along;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  Her cheeks were like wine,
Her eyes in her wee face
  Like water-sparks shine,
Her niminy fingers
  Her sleep tresses preen,
The which in the combing
  She peeps out between;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  Shrill, shrill was her tune:--
"Come to my water-house,
  Annie Maroon:
Come in your dimity,
  Ribbon on head,
To wear siller seaweed
  And coral instead";
    Singing down-adown-derry.

"Down-adown-derry,
  Lean fish of the sea,
Bring lanthorns for feasting
  The gay Faërie;
'Tis sand for the dancing,
  A music all sweet
In the water-green gloaming
  For thistledown feet";
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  Sweet Annie Maroon
Looked large on the fairy
  Curled wan as the moon;
And all the grey ripples
  To the Mill racing by,
With harps and with timbrels
  Did ringing reply;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

"Down-adown-derry,"
  Sang the Fairy of Doone,
Piercing the heart
  Of sweet Annie Maroon;
And lo! when like roses
  The clouds of the sun
Faded at dusk, gone
  Was Annie Maroon;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  The daisies are few;
Frost twinkles powdery
  In haunts of the dew;
And only the robin
  Perched on a thorn,
Can comfort the heart
  Of a father forlorn;
    Singing down-adown-derry.

Down-adown-derry,
  There's snow in the air;
Ice where the lily
  Bloomed waxen and fair;
He may call o'er the water,
  Cry--cry through the Mill,
But Annie Maroon, alas!
  Answer ne'er will;
    Singing down-adown-derry.




THE SUPPER


A wolf he pricks with eyes of fire
Across the night's o'ercrusted snows.
    Seeking his prey,
    He pads his way
Where Jane benighted goes,
  Where Jane benighted goes.

He curdles the bleak air with ire,
Ruffling his hoary raiment through,
    And lo! he sees
    Beneath the trees
Where Jane's light footsteps go,
  Where Jane's light footsteps go.

No hound peals thus in wicked joy,
He snaps his muzzle in the snows,
    His five-clawed feet
    Do scamper fleet
Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows,
  Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows.

Now his greed's green doth gaze unseen
On a pure face of wilding rose,
    Her amber eyes
    In fear's surprise
Watch largely as she goes,
  Watch largely as she goes.

Salt wells his hunger in his jaws,
His lust it revels to and fro,
    Yet small beneath
    A soft voice saith,
"Jane shall in safety go,
  Jane shall in safety go."

He lurched as if a fiery lash
Had scourged his hide, and through and through
    His furious eyes
    O'erscanned the skies,
But nearer dared not go,
  But nearer dared not go.

He reared like wild Bucephalus,
His fangs like spears in him uprose,
    Even to the town
    Jane's flitting gown
He grins on as she goes,
  He grins on as she goes.

In fierce lament he howls amain,
He scampers, marvelling in his throes
    What brought him there
    To sup on air,
While Jane unharmèd goes,
  While Jane unharmèd goes.




THE ISLE OF LONE


Three dwarfs there were which lived in an isle,
  And the name of that Isle was Lone,
And the names of the dwarfs were Alliolyle,
  Lallerie, Muziomone.

Alliolye was green of een,
  Lallerie light of locks,
Muziomone was mild of mien,
  As ewes in April flocks.

Their house was small and sweet of the sea,
  And pale as the Malmsey wine;
Their bowls were three, and their beds were three,
  And their nightcaps white were nine.

Their beds they were made of the holly-wood,
  Their combs of the tortoise's shell,
Three basins of silver in corners there stood,
  And three little ewers as well.

Green rushes, green rushes lay thick on the floor,
  For light beamed a gobbet of wax;
There were three wooden stools for whatever they wore
  On their humpity-dumpity backs.

So each would lie on a drowsy pillow
  And watch the moon in the sky--
And hear the parrot scream to the billow,
  The billow roar reply:

Parrots of sapphire and sulphur and amber,
  Scarlet, and flame, and green,
While five-foot apes did scramble and clamber,
  In the feathery-tufted treen.

All night long with bubbles a-glisten
  The ocean cried under the moon,
Till ape and parrot, too sleepy to listen,
  To sleep and slumber were gone.

Then from three small beds the dark hours' while
  In a house in the Island of Lone
Rose the snoring of Lallerie, Alliolyle,
  The snoring of Muziomone.

But soon as ever came peep of sun
  On coral and feathery tree,
Three night-capped dwarfs to the surf would run
  And soon were a-bob in the sea.

At six they went fishing, at nine they snared
  Young foxes in the dells,
At noon on sweet berries and honey they fared,
  And blew in their twisted shells.

Dark was the sea they gambolled in,
  And thick with silver fish,
Dark as green glass blown clear and thin
  To be a monarch's dish.

They sate to sup in a jasmine bower,
  Lit pale with flies of fire,
Their bowls the hue of the iris-flower,
  And lemon their attire.

Sweet wine in little cups they sipped,
  And golden honeycomb
Into their bowls of cream they dipped,
  Whipt light and white as foam.

Now Alliolyle, where the sand-flower blows,
  Taught three old apes to sing--
Taught three old apes to dance on their toes
  And caper around in a ring.

They yelled them hoarse and they croaked them sweet,
  They twirled them about and around,
To the noise of their voices they danced with their feet,
  They stamped with their feet on the ground.

But down to the shore skipped Lallerie,
  His parrot on his thumb,
And the twain they scotched in mockery,
  While the dancers go and come.

And, alas! in the evening, rosy and still,
  Light-haired Lallerie
Bitterly quarrelled with Alliolyle
  By the yellow-sanded sea.

The rising moon swam sweet and large
  Before their furious eyes,
And they rolled and rolled to the coral marge
  Where the surf for ever cries.

Too late, too late, comes Muziomone:
  Clear in the clear green sea
Alliolyle lies not alone,
  But clasped with Lallerie.

He blows on his shell plaintiff notes;
  Ape, parraquito, bee
Flock where a shoe on the salt wave floats,--
  The shoe of Lallerie.

He fetches nightcaps, one and nine,
  Grey apes he dowers three,
His house as fair as the Malmsey wine
  Seems sad as cypress-tree.

Three bowls he brims with sweet honeycomb
  To feast the bumble bees,
Saying, "O bees, be this your home,
  For grief is on the seas!"

He sate him lone in a coral grot,
  At the flowing in of the tide;
When ebbed the billow, there was not,
  Save coral, aught beside.

So hairy apes in three white beds,
  And nightcaps, one and nine,
On moonlit pillows lay three heads
  Bemused with dwarfish wine.

A tomb of coral, the dirge of bee,
  The grey apes' guttural groan
For Alliolyle, for Lallerie,
  For thee, O Muziomone!




SLEEPING BEAUTY


The scent of bramble fills the air,
  Amid her folded sheets she lies,
The gold of evening in her hair,
  The blue of morn shut in her eyes.

How many a changing moon hath lit
  The unchanging roses of her face!
Her mirror ever broods on it
  In silver stillness of the days.

Oft flits the moth on filmy wings
  Into his solitary lair;
Shrill evensong the cricket sings
  From some still shadow in her hair.

In heat, in snow, in wind, in flood,
  She sleeps in lovely loneliness,
Half-folded like an April bud
  On winter-haunted trees.




THE HORN


Hark! is that a horn I hear,
  In cloudland winding sweet--
And bell-like clash of bridle-rein,
  And silver-shod light feet?

Is it the elfin laughter
  Of fairies riding faint and high,
Beneath the branches of the moon,
  Straying through the starry sky?

Is it in the globèd dew
  Such sweet melodies may fall?
Wood and valley--all are still,
  Hushed the shepherd's call.




CAPTAIN LEAN


Out of the East a hurricane
  Swept down on Captain Lean--
That mariner and gentleman
  Will never again be seen.

He sailed his ship against the foes
  Of his own country dear,
But now in the trough of the billows
  An aimless course doth steer.

Powder was violets to his nostrils,
  Sweet the din of the fighting-line,
Now he is flotsam on the seas,
  And his bones are bleached with brine.

The stars move up along the sky,
  The moon she shines so bright,
And in that solitude the foam
  Sparkles unearthly white.

This is the tomb of Captain Lean,
  Would a straiter please his soul?
I trow he sleeps in peace,
  Howsoever the billows roll!




THE PORTRAIT OF A WARRIOR


His brow is seamed with line and scar;
  His cheek is red and dark as wine;
The fires as of a Northern star
  Beneath his cap of sable shine.

His right hand, bared of leathern glove,
  Hangs open like an iron gin,
You stoop to see his pulses move,
  To hear the blood sweep out and in.

He looks some king, so solitary
  In earnest thought he seems to stand,
As if across a lonely sea
  He gazed impatient of the land.

Out of the noisy centuries
  The foolish and the fearful fade;
Yet burn unquenched these warrior eyes,
  Time hath not dimmed, nor death dismayed.




HAUNTED


From out the wood I watched them shine,--
  The windows of the haunted house,
Now ruddy as enchanted wine,
  Now dark as flittermouse.

There went a thin voice piping airs
  Along the grey and crooked walks,--
A garden of thistledown and tares,
  Bright leaves, and giant stalks.

The twilight rain shone at its gates,
  Where long-leaved grass in shadow grew;
And black in silence to her mates
  A voiceless raven flew.

Lichen and moss the lone stones greened,
  Green paths led lightly to its door,
Keen from her hair the spider leaned,
  And dusk to darkness wore.

Amidst the sedge a whisper ran,
  The West shut down a heavy eye,
And like last tapers, few and wan,
  The watch-stars kindled in the sky.




THE RAVEN'S TOMB


"Build me my tomb," the Raven said,
  "Within the dark yew-tree,
So in the Autumn yewberries
  Sad lamps may burn for me.
Summon the haunted beetle,
  From twilight bud and bloom,
To drone a gloomy dirge for me
  At dusk above my tomb.
Beseech ye too the glowworm
  To rear her cloudy flame,
Where the small, flickering bats resort,
  Whistling in tears my name.
Let the round dew a whisper make,
  Welling on twig and thorn;
And only the grey cock at night
  Call through his silver horn.
And you, dear sisters, don your black
  For ever and a day,
To show how true a raven
  In his tomb is laid away."




THE CHRISTENING


The bells chime clear,
Soon will the sun behind the hills sink down;
Come, little Ann, your baby brother dear
Lies in his christening-gown.

His godparents,
Are all across the fields stepped on before,
And wait beneath the crumbling monuments,
This side the old church door.

Your mammie dear
Leans frail and lovely on your daddie's arm;
Watching her chick, 'twixt happiness and fear,
Lest he should come to harm.

All to be blest
Full soon in the clear heavenly water, he
Sleeps on unwitting of it, his little breast
Heaving so tenderly.

I carried you,
My little Ann, long since on this same quest,
And from the painted windows a pale hue
Lit golden on your breast;

And then you woke,
Chill as the holy water trickled down,
And, weeping, cast the window a strange look,
Half smile, half infant frown.

I scarce could hear
The shrill larks singing in the green meadows,
'Twas summertide, and, budding far and near,
The hedges thick with rose.

And now you're grown
A little girl, and this same helpless mite
Is come like such another bud half-grown,
Out of the wintry night.

Time flies, time flies!
And yet, bless me! 'tis little changed am I;
May Jesu keep from tears those infant eyes,
Be love their lullaby!




THE FUNERAL


They dressed us up in black,
  Susan and Tom and me--
And, walking through the fields
  All beautiful to see,
With branches high in the air
  And daisy and buttercup,
We heard the lark in the clouds--
  In black dressed up.

They took us to the graves,
  Susan and Tom and me,
Where the long grasses grow
  And the funeral tree:
We stood and watched; and the wind
  Came softly out of the sky
And blew in Susan's hair,
  As I stood close by.

Back through the fields we came,
  Tom and Susan and me,
And we sat in the nursery together,
  And had our tea.
And, looking out of the window,
  I heard the thrushes sing;
But Tom fell asleep in his chair,
  He was so tired, poor thing.




THE MOTHER BIRD


Through the green twilight of a hedge
I peered, with cheek on the cool leaves pressed,
And spied a bird upon a nest:
Two eyes she had beseeching me
Meekly and brave, and her brown breast
Throbbed hot and quick above her heart;
And then she opened her dagger bill,--
'Twas not a chirp, as sparrows pipe
At break of day; 'twas not a trill,
As falters through the quiet even;
But one sharp solitary note,
One desperate, fierce, and vivid cry
Of valiant tears, and hopeless joy,
One passionate note of victory;
Off, like a fool afraid, I sneaked,
Smiling the smile the fool smiles best,
At the mother bird in the secret hedge
Patient upon her lonely nest.




THE CHILD IN THE STORY GOES TO BED


I prythee, Nurse, come smooth my hair,
  And prythee, Nurse, unloose my shoe,
And trimly turn my silken sheet
  Upon my quilt of gentle blue.

My pillow sweet of lavender
  Smooth with an amiable hand,
And may the dark pass peacefully by
  As in the hour-glass droops the sand.

Prepare my cornered manchet sweet,
  And in my little crystal cup
Pour out the blithe and flowering mead
  That forthwith I may sup.

Withdraw my curtains from the night,
  And let the crispèd crescent shine
Upon my eyelids while I sleep,
  And soothe me with her beams benign.

Dark looks the forest far-away;
  O, listen! through its empty dales
Rings from the solemn echoing boughs
  The music of its nightingales.

Now quench my silver lamp, prythee,
  And bid the harpers harp that tune
Fairies which haunt the meadowlands
  Sing clearly to the stars of June.

And bid them play, though I in dreams
  No longer heed their pining strains,
For I would not to silence wake
  When slumber o'er my senses wanes.

You Angels bright who me defend,
  Enshadow me with curvèd wing,
And keep me in the darksome night.
  Till dawn another day do bring.




THE LAMPLIGHTER


When the light of day declines,
And a swift angel through the sky
Kindles God's tapers clear,
With ashen staff the lamplighter
Passes along the darkling streets
To light our earthly lamps;

Lest, prowling in the darkness,
The thief should haunt with quiet tread,
Or men on evil errands set;
Or wayfarers be benighted;
Or neighbors, bent from house to house,
Should need a guiding torch.

He is like a needlewoman
Who deftly on a sable hem
Stitches in gleaming jewels;
Or, haply, he is like a hero,
Whose bright deeds on the long journey
Are beacons on our way.

And when in the East comes morning,
And the broad splendour of the sun,
Then, with the tune of little birds
Rings on high, the lamplighter
Passes by each quiet house,
And he puts out the lamps.




I MET AT EVE


I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
  His was a still and lovely face,
He wandered through a valley steep,
  Lovely in a lonely place.

His garb was grey of lavender,
  About his brows a poppy-wreath
Burned like dim coals, and everywhere
  The air was sweeter for his breath.

His twilight feet no sandals wore,
  His eyes shone faint in their own flame,
Fair moths that gloomed his steps before
  Seemed letters of his lovely name.

His house is in the mountain ways,
  A phantom house of misty walls,
Whose golden flocks at evening graze,
  And witch the moon with muffled calls.

Upwelling from his shadowy springs
  Sweet waters shake a trembling sound,
There flit the hoot-owl's silent wings,
  There hath his web the silkworm wound.

Dark in his pools clear visions lurk,
  And rosy, as with morning buds,
Along his dales of broom and birk
  Dreams haunt his solitary woods.

I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
  His was a still and lovely face,
He wandered through a valley steep,
  Lovely in a lonely place.




LULLABY


Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul;
The little mouse cheeps plaintively,
The night-bird in the chestnut-tree--
They sing together, bird and mouse,
In starlight, in darkness, lonely, sweet,
The wild notes and the faint notes meet--
  Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul.

Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul;
Amid the lilies floats the moth,
The mole along his galleries goeth
In the dark earth; the summer moon
Looks like a shepherd through the pane
Seeking his feeble lamp again--
  Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul.

Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul;
Time comes to keep night-watch with thee,
Nodding with roses; and the sea
Saith "Peace! Peace!" amid his foam.
"O be still!"
The wind cries up the whispering hill--
  Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul.




ENVOI


Child, do you love the flower
  Ashine with colour and dew
Lighting its transient hour?
    So I love you.

The lambs in the mead are at play,
  'Neath a hurdle the shepherd's asleep;
From height to height of the day
    The sunbeams sweep.

Evening will come. And alone
  The dreamer the dark will beguile;
All the world will be gone
    For a dream's brief while.

Then I shall be old; and away:
  And you, with sad joy in your eyes,
Will brood over children at play
    With as loveful surmise.








    TO CINNA

Cinna, the great Venusian told
  In songs that will not die
How in Augustan days of old
  Your love did glorify
His life and all his being seemed
  Thrilled by that rare incense
Till, grudging him the dreams he dreamed,
  The gods did call you hence.

Cinna, I've looked into your eyes,
  And held your hands in mine,
And seen your cheeks in sweet surprise
  Blush red as Massic wine;
Now let the songs in Cinna's praise
  Be chanted once again,
For, oh! alone I walk the ways
  We walked together then!

Perhaps upon some star to-night,
  So far away in space
I cannot see that beacon light
  Nor feel its soothing grace--
Perhaps from that far-distant sphere
  Her quickened vision seeks
For this poor heart of mine that here
  To its lost Cinna speaks.

Then search this heart, beloved eyes,
  And find it still as true
As when in all my boyhood skies
  My guiding stars were you!
Cinna, you know the mystery
  That is denied to men--
Mine is the lot to feel that we
  Shall elsewhere love again!



    BALLAD OF WOMEN I LOVE

Prudence Mears hath an old blue plate
  Hid away in an oaken chest,
And a Franklin platter of ancient date
  Beareth Amandy Baker's crest;
What times soever I've been their guest,
  Says I to myself in an undertone:
"Of womenfolk, it must be confessed,
  These do I love, and these alone."

Well, again, in the Nutmeg State,
  Dorothy Pratt is richly blest
With a relic of art and a land effete--
  A pitcher of glass that's cut, not pressed.
And a Washington teapot is possessed
  Down in Pelham by Marthy Stone--
Think ye now that I say in jest
  "These do I love, and these alone?"

Were Hepsy Higgins inclined to mate,
  Or Dorcas Eastman prone to invest
In Cupid's bonds, they could find their fate
  In the bootless bard of Crockery Quest.
For they've heaps of trumpery--so have the rest
  Of those spinsters whose ware I'd like to own;
You can see why I say with such certain zest,
  "These do I love, and these alone."



    ENVOY

Prince, show me the quickest way and best
  To gain the subject of my moan;
We've neither spinsters nor relics out West--
  These do I love, and these alone.



    SUPPOSE

Suppose, my dear, that you were I
  And by your side your sweetheart sate;
Suppose you noticed by and by
  The distance 'twixt you were too great;
Now tell me, dear, what would you do?
  I know--and so do you.

And when (so comfortably placed)
  Suppose you only grew aware
That that dear, dainty little waist
  Of hers looked very lonely there;
Pray tell me sooth--what would you do?
  I know, and so do you.

When, having done what I just did
  With not a frown to check or chill,
Suppose her red lips seemed to bid
  Defiance to your lordly will;
Oh, tell me, sweet, what would you do?
  I know, and so do you.



    MYSTERIOUS DOINGS

As once I rambled in the woods
  I chanced to spy amid the brake
A huntsman ride his way beside
  A fair and passing tranquil lake;
Though velvet bucks sped here and there,
  He let them scamper through the green--
Not one smote he, but lustily
  He blew his horn--what could it mean?

As on I strolled beside that lake,
  A pretty maid I chanced to see
Fishing away for finny prey,
  Yet not a single one caught she;
All round her boat the fishes leapt
  And gambolled to their hearts' content,
Yet never a thing did the maid but sing--
  I wonder what on earth it meant.

As later yet I roamed my way,
  A lovely steed neighed loud and long,
And an empty boat sped all afloat
  Where sang a fishermaid her song;
All underneath the prudent shade,
  Which yonder kindly willows threw,
Together strayed a youth and maid--
  I can't explain it all, can you?



    WITH TWO SPOONS FOR TWO SPOONS

How trifling shall these gifts appear
  Among the splendid many
That loving friends now send to cheer
  Harvey and Ellen Jenney.

And yet these baubles symbolize
  A certain fond relation
That well beseems, as I surmise,
  This festive celebration.

Sweet friends of mine, be spoons once more,
  And with your tender cooing
Renew the keen delights of yore--
  The rapturous bliss of wooing.

What though that silver in your hair
  Tells of the years aflying?
'T is yours to mock at Time and Care
  With love that is undying.

In memory of this Day, dear friends,
  Accept the modest token
From one who with the bauble sends
  A love that can't be spoken.







    JESSIE

When I remark her golden hair
  Swoon on her glorious shoulders,
I marvel not that sight so rare
  Doth ravish all beholders;
For summon hence all pretty girls
  Renowned for beauteous tresses,
And you shall find among their curls
  There's none so fair as Jessie's.

And Jessie's eyes are, oh, so blue
  And full of sweet revealings--
They seem to look you through and through
  And read your inmost feelings;
Nor black emits such ardent fires,
  Nor brown such truth expresses--
Admit it, all ye gallant squires--
  There are no eyes like Jessie's.

Her voice (like liquid beams that roll
    From moonland to the river)
Steals subtly to the raptured soul,
    Therein to lie and quiver;
Or falls upon the grateful ear
    With chaste and warm caresses--
Ah, all concede the truth (who hear):
    There's no such voice as Jessie's.

Of other charms she hath such store
    All rivalry excelling,
Though I used adjectives galore,
    They'd fail me in the telling;
But now discretion stays my hand--
    Adieu, eyes, voice, and tresses.
Of all the husbands in the land
    There's none so fierce as Jessie's.



    TO EMMA ABBOTT

There--let thy hands be folded
    Awhile in sleep's repose;
The patient hands that wearied not,
But earnestly and nobly wrought
      In charity and faith;
    And let thy dear eyes close--
The eyes that looked alway to God,
Nor quailed beneath the chastening rod
        Of sorrow;
Fold thou thy hands and eyes
      For just a little while,
      And with a smile
        Dream of the morrow.

And, O white voiceless flower,
    The dream which thou shalt dream
Should be a glimpse of heavenly things,
For yonder like a seraph sings
      The sweetness of a life
    With faith alway its theme;
While speedeth from those realms above
The messenger of that dear love
        That healeth sorrow.
    So sleep a little while,
      For thou shalt wake and sing
      Before thy King
        When cometh the morrow.



    THE GREAT JOURNALIST IN SPAIN

Good editor Dana--God bless him, we say--
  Will soon be afloat on the main,
    Will be steaming away
    Through the mist and the spray
  To the sensuous climate of Spain.

Strange sights shall he see in that beautiful land
  Which is famed for its soap and its Moor,
    For, as we understand,
    The scenery is grand
  Though the system of railways is poor.

For moonlight of silver and sunlight of gold
  Glint the orchards of lemons and mangoes,
    And the ladies, we're told,
    Are a joy to behold
  As they twine in their lissome fandangoes.

What though our friend Dana shall twang a guitar
  And murmur a passionate strain;
    Oh, fairer by far
    Than those ravishments are
  The castles abounding in Spain.

These castles are built as the builder may list--
  They are sometimes of marble or stone,
    But they mostly consist
    Of east wind and mist
  With an ivy of froth overgrown.

A beautiful castle our Dana shall raise
  On a futile foundation of hope,
    And its glories shall blaze
    In the somnolent haze
  Of the mythical lake del y Soap.

The fragrance of sunflowers shall swoon on the air
  And the visions of Dreamland obtain,
    And the song of "World's Fair"
    Shall be heard everywhere
  Through that beautiful castle in Spain.



    LOVE SONG--HEINE

Many a beauteous flower doth spring
  From the tears that flood my eyes,
And the nightingale doth sing
  In the burthen of my sighs.

If, O child, thou lovest me,
  Take these flowerets fair and frail,
And my soul shall waft to thee
  Love songs of the nightingale.







    HUGO'S "POOL IN THE FOREST"

How calm, how beauteous and how cool--
  How like a sister to the skies,
Appears the broad, transparent pool
  That in this quiet forest lies.
The sunshine ripples on its face,
  And from the world around, above,
It hath caught down the nameless grace
  Of such reflections as we love.

But deep below its surface crawl
  The reptile horrors of the night--
The dragons, lizards, serpents--all
  The hideous brood that hate the light;
Through poison fern and slimy weed
  And under ragged, jagged stones
They scuttle, or, in ghoulish greed,
  They lap a dead man's bleaching bones.

And as, O pool, thou dost cajole
  With seemings that beguile us well,
So doeth many a human soul
  That teemeth with the lusts of hell.



    A RHINE-LAND DRINKING SONG

If our own life is the life of a flower
    (And that's what some sages are thinking),
We should moisten the bud with a health-giving flood
      And 'twill bloom all the sweeter--
      Yes, life's the completer
    For drinking,
          and drinking,
                and drinking.

If it be that our life is a journey
    (As many wise folk are opining),
We should sprinkle the way with the rain while we may;
      Though dusty and dreary,
      'Tis made cool and cheery
    With wining,
          and wining,
                and wining.

If this life that we live be a dreaming
    (As pessimist people are thinking),
To induce pleasant dreams there is nothing, meseems,
      Like this sweet prescription,
      That baffles description--
    This drinking,
          and drinking,
                and drinking.



    DER MANN IM KELLER

How cool and fair this cellar where
    My throne a dusky cask is;
To do no thing but just to sing
    And drown the time my task is.
        The cooper he's
        Resolved to please,
And, answering to my winking,
        He fills me up
        Cup after cup
For drinking, drinking, drinking.

        Begrudge me not
        This cosy spot
In which I am reclining--
        Why, who would burst
        With envious thirst,
When he can live by wining.
A roseate hue seems to imbue
    The world on which I'm blinking;
My fellow-men--I love them when
I'm drinking, drinking, drinking.

And yet I think, the more I drink,
    It's more and more I pine for--
Oh, such as I (forever dry)
    God made this land of Rhine for;
      And there is bliss
      In knowing this,
As to the floor I'm sinking:
      I've wronged no man
      And never can
While drinking, drinking, drinking.



    TWO IDYLLS FROM BION THE SMYRNEAN

I

Once a fowler, young and artless,
  To the quiet greenwood came;
Full of skill was he and heartless
  In pursuit of feathered game.
And betimes he chanced to see
Eros perching in a tree.

"What strange bird is that, I wonder?"
  Thought the youth, and spread his snare;
Eros, chuckling at the blunder,
  Gayly scampered here and there.
Do his best, the simple clod
Could not snare the agile god!

Blubbering, to his aged master
  Went the fowler in dismay,
And confided his disaster
  With that curious bird that day;
"Master, hast thou ever heard
Of so ill-disposed a bird?"

"Heard of him? Aha, most truly!"
  Quoth the master with a smile;
"And thou too, shall know him duly--
  Thou art young, but bide awhile,
And old Eros will not fly
From thy presence by and by!

"For when thou art somewhat older
  That same Eros thou didst see,
More familiar grown and bolder,
  Shall become acquaint with thee;
And when Eros comes thy way
Mark my word, he comes to stay!"

II

Once came Venus to me, bringing
  Eros where my cattle fed--
"Teach this little boy your singing,
  Gentle herdsman," Venus said.
I was young--I did not know
  Whom it was that Venus led--
That was many years ago!

In a lusty voice but mellow--
  Callow pedant! I began
To instruct the little fellow
  In the mysteries known to man;
Sung the noble cithern's praise,
  And the flute of dear old Pan,
And the lyre that Hermes plays.

But he paid no heed unto me--
  Nay, that graceless little boy
Coolly plotted to undo me--
  With his songs of tender joy;
And my pedantry o'erthrown,
  Eager was I to employ
His sweet ritual for mine own!

Ah, these years of ours are fleeting!
  Yet I have not vainly wrought,
Since to-day I am repeating
  What dear lessons Eros taught;
Love, and always love, and then--
  Counting all things else for naught--
Love and always love again!



    THE WOOING OF THE SOUTHLAND

      (ALASKAN BALLAD)

The Northland reared his hoary head
  And spied the Southland leagues away--
"Fairest of all fair brides," he said,
  "Be thou my bride, I pray!"

Whereat the Southland laughed and cried:
  "I'll bide beside my native sea,
And I shall never be thy bride
  Till thou com'st wooing me!"

The Northland's heart was a heart of ice,
  A diamond glacier, mountain high--
Oh, love is sweet at any price,
  As well know you and I!

So gayly the Northland took his heart
  And cast it in the wailing sea--
"Go, thou, with all thy cunning art,
  And woo my bride for me!"

For many a night and for many a day,
  And over the leagues that rolled between,
The true-heart messenger sped away
  To woo the Southland queen.

But the sea wailed loud, and the sea wailed long,
  While ever the Northland cried in glee:
"Oh, thou shalt sing us our bridal song,
  When comes my bride, O sea!"

At the foot of the Southland's golden throne
  The heart of the Northland ever throbs--
For that true-heart speaks in the waves that moan,
  The songs that it sings are sobs.

Ever the Southland spurns the cries
  Of the messenger pleading the Northland's part;
The summer shines in the Southland's eyes--
  The winter bides in her heart!

And ever unto that far-off place
  Which love doth render a hallowed spot,
The Northland turneth his honest face
  And wonders she cometh not.

The sea wails loud, and the sea wails long,
  As the ages of waiting drift slowly by,
But the sea shall sing no bridal song--
  As well know you and I!



    HYMN

   (FROM THE GERMAN OF MARTIN LUTHER)

O heart of mine! lift up thine eyes
And see who in yon manger lies!
Of perfect form, of face divine--
It is the Christ-child, heart of mine!

O dearest, holiest Christ-child, spread
Within this heart of mine thy bed;
Then shall my breast forever be
A chamber consecrate to thee!

Beat high to-day, O heart of mine,
And tell, O lips, what joys are thine;
For with your help shall I prolong
Old Bethlehem's sweetest cradle-song.

Glory to God, whom this dear Child
Hath by His coming reconciled,
And whose redeeming love again
Brings peace on earth, good will to men!



    STAR OF THE EAST

Star of the East, that long ago
  Brought wise men on their way
Where, angels singing to and fro,
  The Child of Bethlehem lay--
Above that Syrian hill afar
Thou shinest out to-night, O Star!

Star of the East, the night were drear
  But for the tender grace
That with thy glory comes to cheer
  Earth's loneliest, darkest place;
For by that charity we see
Where there is hope for all and me.

Star of the East! show us the way
  In wisdom undefiled
To seek that manger out and lay
  Our gifts before the child--
To bring our hearts and offer them
Unto our King in Bethlehem!



    TWIN IDOLS

There are two phrases, you must know,
  So potent (yet so small)
That wheresoe'er a man may go
  He needs none else at all;
No servile guide to lead the way
  Nor lackey at his heel,
If he be learned enough to say
  "Comme bien" and "Wie viel."

The sleek, pomaded Parleyvoo
  Will air his sweetest airs
And quote the highest rates when you
  "Comme bien" for his wares;
And, though the German stolid be,
  His so-called heart of steel
Becomes as soft as wax when he
  Detects the words "Wie viel."

Go, search the boulevards and rues
  From Havre to Marseilles--
You'll find all eloquence you use
  Except "Comme bien" fails;
Or in the country auf der Rhine
  Essay a business deal
And all your art is good fuhr nein
  Beyond the point--"Wie viel."

It matters not what game or prey
  Attracts your greedy eyes--
You must pursue the good old way
  If you would win the prize;
It is to get a titled mate
  All run down at the heel,
If you inquire of stock effete,
  "Comme bien" or "Wie viel."

So he is wise who envieth not
  A wealth of foreign speech,
Since with two phrases may be got
  Whatever's in his reach;
For Europe is a soulless shrine
  In which all classes kneel
Before twin idols, deemed divine--
  "Comme bien" and "Wie viel."



    TWO VALENTINES

TO MISTRESS BARBARA

There were three cavaliers, all handsome and true,
On Valentine's day came a maiden to woo,
And quoth to your mother: "Good-morrow, my dear,
We came with some songs for your daughter to hear!"

Your mother replied: "I'll be pleased to convey
To my daughter what things you may sing or may say!"

Then the first cavalier sung: "My pretty red rose,
I'll love you and court you some day, I suppose!"

And the next cavalier sung, with make-believe tears:
"I've loved you! I've loved you these many long years!"

But the third cavalier (with the brown, bushy head
And the pretty blue jacket and necktie of red)
He drew himself up with a resolute air,
And he warbled: "O maiden, surpassingly fair!
I've loved you long years, and I love you to-day,
And, if you will let me, I'll love you for aye!"

I (the third cavalier) sang this ditty to you,
In my necktie of red and my jacket of blue;
I'm sure you'll prefer the song that was mine
And smile your approval on your valentine.




TO A BABY BOY

Who I am I shall not say,
But I send you this bouquet
With this query, baby mine:
"Will you be my valentine?"

See these roses blushing blue,
Very like your eyes of hue;
While these violets are the red
Of your cheeks. It can be said
Ne'er before was babe like you.

And I think it is quite true
No one e'er before to-day
Sent so wondrous a bouquet
As these posies aforesaid--
Roses blue and violets red!

Sweet, repay me sweets for sweets--
'Tis your lover who entreats!
Smile upon me, baby mine--
Be my little valentine!



    MOTHER AND SPHINX

   (EGYPTIAN FOLK-SONG)

Grim is the face that looks into the night
  Over the stretch of sands;
A sullen rock in a sea of white--
A ghostly shadow in ghostly light,
  Peering and moaning it stands.
_"Oh, is it the king that rides this way--
Oh, is it the king that rides so free?
I have looked for the king this many a day,
But the years that mock me will not say
  Why tarrieth he!"_

'T is not your king that shall ride to-night,
  But a child that is fast asleep;
And the horse he shall ride is the Dream-horse white--
Aha, he shall speed through the ghostly light
  Where the ghostly shadows creep!
_"My eyes are dull and my face is sere,
  Yet unto the word he gave I cling,
For he was a Pharaoh that set me here--
And, lo! I have waited this many a year
  For him--my king!"_

Oh, past thy face my darling shall ride
  Swift as the burning winds that bear
The sand clouds over the desert wide--
Swift to the verdure and palms beside
  The wells off there!
_"And is it the mighty king I shall see
  Come riding into the night?
Oh, is it the king come back to me--
Proudly and fiercely rideth he,
  With centuries dight!"_

I know no king but my dark-eyed dear
  That shall ride the Dream-Horse white;
But see! he wakes at my bosom here,
While the Dream-Horse frettingly lingers near
  To speed with my babe to-night!
_And out of the desert darkness peers
  A ghostly, ghastly, shadowy thing
Like a spirit come out of the mouldering years,
And ever that waiting spectre hears
  The coming king!_



   


    "TO MY OLD COAT."

Still serve me in my age, I pray,
  As in my youth, O faithful one;
For years I've brushed thee every day--
  Could Socrates have better done?
What though the fates would wreak on thee
  The fulness of their evil art?
Use thou philosophy, like me--
  And we, old friend, shall never part!

I think--I _often_ think of it--
  The day we twain first faced the crowd;
My roistering friends impeached your fit,
  But you and I were very proud!
Those jovial friends no more make free
  With us (no longer new and smart),
But rather welcome you and me
  As loving friends that should not part.

The patch? Oh, yes--one happy night--
  "Lisette," says I, "it's time to go"--
She clutched this sleeve to stay my flight,
  Shrieking: "What! leave so early? No!"
To mend the ghastly rent she'd made,
  Three days she toiled, dear patient heart!
And I--right willingly I staid--
  Lisette decreed we should not part!

No incense ever yet profaned
  This honest, shiny warp of thine,
Nor hath a courtier's eye disdained
  Thy faded hue and quaint design;
Let servile flattery be the price
  Of ribbons in the royal mart--
A roadside posie shall suffice
  For us two friends that must not part!

Fear not the recklessness of yore
  Shall re-occur to vex thee now;
Alas, I am a youth no more--
  I'm old and sere, and so art thou!
So bide with me unto the last
  And with thy warmth caress this heart
That pleads, by memories of the Past,
  That two such friends should never part!






    A HEINE LOVE SONG

The image of the moon at night
  All trembling in the ocean lies,
But she, with calm and steadfast light,
  Moves proudly through the radiant skies,

How like the tranquil moon thou art--
  Thou fairest flower of womankind!
And, look, within my fluttering heart
  Thy image trembling is enshrined!



    UHLAND'S "CHAPEL"

Yonder stands the hillside chapel
  Mid the evergreens and rocks,
All day long it hears the song
  Of the shepherd to his flocks.

Then the chapel bell goes tolling--
  Knelling for a soul that's sped;
Silent and sad the shepherd lad
  Hears the requiem for the dead.

Shepherd, singers of the valley,
  Voiceless now, speed on before;
Soon shall knell that chapel bell
  For the songs you'll sing no more.



    THE DREAMS

Two dreams came down to earth one night
  From the realm of mist and dew;
One was a dream of the old, old days,
  And one was a dream of the new.

One was a dream of a shady lane
  That led to the pickerel pond
Where the willows and rushes bowed themselves
  To the brown old hills beyond.

And the people that peopled the old-time dream
  Were pleasant and fair to see,
And the dreamer he walked with them again
  As often of old walked he.

Oh, cool was the wind in the shady lane
  That tangled his curly hair!
Oh, sweet was the music the robins made
  To the springtime everywhere!

Was it the dew the dream had brought
  From yonder midnight skies,
Or was it tears from the dear, dead years
  That lay in the dreamer's eyes?

The _other_ dream ran fast and free,
  As the moon benignly shed
Her golden grace on the smiling face
  In the little trundle-bed.

For 't was a dream of times to come--
  Of the glorious noon of day--
Of the summer that follows the careless spring
  When the child is done with play.

And 't was a dream of the busy world
  Where valorous deeds are done;
Of battles fought in the cause of right,
  And of victories nobly won.

It breathed no breath of the dear old home
  And the quiet joys of youth;
It gave no glimpse of the good old friends
  Or the old-time faith and truth.

But 't was a dream of youthful hopes,
  And fast and free it ran,
And it told to a little sleeping child
  Of a boy become a man!

These were the dreams that came one night
  To earth from yonder sky;
These were the dreams two dreamers dreamed--
  My little boy and I.

And in our hearts my boy and I
  Were glad that it was so;
_He_ loved to dream of days to come,
  And _I_ of long ago.

So from our dreams my boy and I
  Unwillingly awoke,
But neither of his precious dream
  Unto the other spoke.

Yet of the love we bore those dreams
  Gave each his tender sign;
For there was triumph in _his_ eyes--
  And there were tears in mine!



   


    A DRINKING SONG

Come, brothers, share the fellowship
  We celebrate to-night;
There's grace of song on every lip
  And every heart is light!
But first, before our mentor chimes
  The hour of jubilee,
Let's drink a health to good old times,
  And good times yet to be!
        Clink, clink, clink!
        Merrily let us drink!
          There's store of wealth
          And more of health
        In every glass, we think.
        Clink, clink, clink!
        To fellowship we drink!
          And from the bowl
          No genial soul
        In such an hour can shrink.

And you, oh, friends from west and east
  And other foreign parts,
Come share the rapture of our feast,
  The love of loyal hearts;
And in the wassail that suspends
  All matters burthensome,
We'll drink a health to good old friends
  And good friends yet to come.
        Clink, clink, clink!
        To fellowship we drink!
          And from the bowl
          No genial soul
        In such an hour will shrink.
        Clink, clink, clink!
        Merrily let us drink!
          There's fellowship
          In every sip
        Of friendship's brew, we think.





    THE BOW-LEG BOY

Who should come up the road one day
But the doctor-man in his two-wheel shay!
And he whoaed his horse and he cried "Ahoy!
I have brought you folks a bow-leg boy!
  Such a cute little boy!
    Such a funny little boy!
      Such a dear little bow-leg boy!"

He took out his box and he opened it wide,
And there was the bow-leg boy inside!
And when they saw that cunning little mite,
They cried in a chorus expressive of delight:
  "What a cute little boy!
    What a funny little boy!
      What a dear little bow-leg boy!"

Observing a strict geometrical law,
They cut out his panties with a circular saw;
Which gave such a stress to his oval stride
That the people he met invariably cried:
  "What a cute little boy!
    What a funny little boy!
      What a dear little bow-leg boy!"

They gave him a wheel and away he went
Speeding along to his heart's content;
And he sits so straight and he pedals so strong
That the folks all say as he bowls along:
  "What a cute little boy!
    What a funny little boy!
      What a dear little bow-leg boy!"

With his eyes aflame and his cheeks aglow,
He laughs "aha" and he laughs "oho";
And the world is filled and thrilled with the joy
Of that jolly little human, the bow-leg boy--
  The cute little boy!
    The funny little boy!
      The dear little bow-leg boy!

If ever the doctor-man comes _my_ way
With his wonderful box in his two-wheel shay,
I'll ask for the treasure I'd fain possess--
Now, honest Injun! can't you guess?
  Why, a cute little boy--
    A funny little boy--
      A dear little bow-leg boy!







    A PITEOUS PLAINT

I cannot eat my porridge,
  I weary of my play;
No longer can I sleep at night,
  No longer romp by day!
Though forty pounds was once my weight,
  I'm shy of thirty now;
I pine, I wither and I fade
  Through love of Martha Clow.

As she rolled by this morning
  I heard the nurse girl say:
"She weighs just twenty-seven pounds
  And she's one year old to-day."
I threw a kiss that nestled
  In the curls upon her brow,
But she never turned to thank me--
  That bouncing Martha Clow!

She ought to know I love her,
  For I've told her that I do;
And I've brought her nuts and apples,
  And sometimes candy, too!
I'd drag her in my little cart
  If her mother would allow
That delicate attention
  To her daughter, Martha Clow.

O Martha! pretty Martha!
  Will you always be so cold?
Will you always be as cruel
  As you are at one-year-old?
Must your two-year-old admirer
  Pine as hopelessly as now
For a fond reciprocation
  Of his love for Martha Clow?

You smile on Bernard Rogers
  And on little Harry Knott;
You play with them at peek-a-boo
  All in the Waller Lot!
Wildly I gnash my new-cut teeth
  And beat my throbbing brow,
When I behold the coquetry
  Of heartless Martha Clow!

I cannot eat my porridge,
  Nor for my play care I;
Upon the floor and porch and lawn
  My toys neglected lie;
But on the air of Halsted street
  I breathe this solemn vow:
"Though _she_ be _false_, _I_ will be true
  To pretty Martha Clow!"



    THE DISCREET COLLECTOR

Down south there is a curio-shop
  Unknown to many men;
Thereat do I intend to stop
  When I am south again;
The narrow street through which to go--
  Aha! I know it well!
And may be you would like to know--
  But no--I will not tell!

'T is there to find the loveliest plates
  (The bluest of the blue!)
At such surprisingly low rates
  You'd not believe it true!
And there is one Napoleon vase
  Of dainty Sèvres to sell--
I'm sure you'd like to know that place--
  But no--I will not tell!

Then, too, I know another shop
  Has old, old beds for sale,
With lovely testers up on top
  Carved in ornate detail;
And there are sideboards rich and rare,
  With fronts that proudly swell--
Oh, there are bargains waiting there,
  But where I will not tell!

And hark! I know a bottle-man
  Smiling and debonair,
And he has promised me I can
  Choose of his precious ware!
In age and shape and color, too,
  His dainty goods excel--
Aha, my friends, if you but knew--
  But no! I will not tell!

A thousand other shops I know
  Where bargains can be got--
Where other folk would like to go
  Who have what I have not.
I let them hunt; I hold my mouth--
  Yes, though I know full well
Where lie the treasures of the south,
  I'm not a going to tell!



    A VALENTINE

Your gran'ma, in her youth, was quite
  As blithe a little maid as you.
And, though her hair is snowy white,
  Her eyes still have their maiden blue,
And on her cheeks, as fair as thine,
  Methinks a girlish blush would glow
If she recalled the valentine
  She got, ah! many years ago.

A valorous youth loved gran'ma then,
  And wooed her in that auld lang syne;
And first he told his secret when
  He sent the maid that valentine.
No perfumed page nor sheet of gold
  Was that first hint of love he sent,
But with the secret gran'pa told--
  "I love you"--gran'ma was content.

Go, ask your gran'ma, if you will,
  If--though her head be bowed and gray--
If--though her feeble pulse be chill--
  True love abideth not for aye;
By that quaint portrait on the wall,
  That smiles upon her from above,
Methinks your gran'ma can recall
  The sweet divinity of love.

Dear Elsie, here's no page of gold--
  No sheet embossed with cunning art--
But here's a solemn pledge of old:
  "I love you, love, with all my heart."
And if in what I send you here
  You read not all of love expressed,
Go--go to gran'ma, Elsie dear,
  And she will tell you all the rest!








    THE TWO LITTLE SKEEZUCKS

There were two little skeezucks who lived in the isle
  Of Boo in a southern sea;
They clambered and rollicked in heathenish style
  In the boughs of their cocoanut tree.
They didn't fret much about clothing and such
  And they recked not a whit of the ills
    That sometimes accrue
    From having to do
With tailor and laundry bills.

The two little skeezucks once heard of a Fair
  Far off from their native isle,
And they asked of King Fan if they mightn't go there
  To take in the sights for awhile.
    Now old King Fan
    Was a good-natured man
(As good-natured monarchs go),
And howbeit he swore that all Fairs were a bore,
He hadn't the heart to say "No."

So the two little skeezucks sailed off to the Fair
  In a great big gum canoe,
And I fancy they had a good time there,
  For they tarried a year or two.
And old King Fan at last began
  To reckon they'd come to grief,
    When glory! one day
    They sailed into the bay
To the tune of "Hail to the Chief!"

The two little skeezucks fell down on the sand,
  Embracing his majesty's toes,
Till his majesty graciously bade them stand
  And salute him nose to nose.
    And then quoth he:
    "Divulge unto me
  What happenings have hapt to you;
And how did they dare to indulge in a Fair
  So far from the island of Boo?"

The two little skeezucks assured their king
  That what he surmised was true;
That the Fair would have been a different thing
  Had it only been held in Boo!
"The folk over there in no wise compare
  With the folk of the southern seas;
    Why, they comb out their heads
    And they sleep in beds
Instead of in caverns and trees!"

The two little skeezucks went on to say
  That children (so far as they knew)
Had a much harder time in that land far away
  Than here in the island of Boo!
    They have to wear clo'es
    Which (as every one knows)
  Are irksome to primitive laddies,
While, with forks and with spoons, they're denied the sweet boons
That accrue from free use of one's paddies!

"And now that you're speaking of things to eat,"
  Interrupted the monarch of Boo,
"We beg to inquire if you happened to meet
  With a nice missionary or two?"
"No, that we did not; in that curious spot
 Where were gathered the fruits of the earth,
   Of that special kind
   Which Your Nibs has in mind
There appeared a deplorable dearth!"

Then loud laughed that monarch in heathenish mirth
  And loud laughed his courtiers, too,
And they cried: "There is elsewhere no land upon earth
  So good as our island of Boo!"
    And the skeezucks, tho' glad
    Of the journey they'd had,
  Climbed up in their cocoanut trees,
Where they still may be seen with no shirts to keep clean
  Or trousers that bag at the knees.



    PAN LIVETH

They told me once that Pan was dead,
  And so, in sooth, I thought him;
For vainly where the streamlets led
  Through flowery meads I sought him--
Nor in his dewy pasture bed
  Nor in the grove I caught him.
  _"Tell me," 'twas so my clamor ran--
  "Tell me, oh, where is Pan?"_

But, once, as on my pipe I played
  A requiem sad and tender,
Lo, thither came a shepherd-maid--
  Full comely she and slender!
I were indeed a churlish blade
  With wailings to offend 'er--
    _For, surely, wooing's sweeter than
    A mourning over Pan!_

So, presently, whiles I did scan
  That shepherd-maiden pretty,
And heard her accents, I began
  To pipe a cheerful ditty;
And so, betimes, forgot old Pan
  Whose death had waked my pity;
     _So--so did Love undo the man
     Who sought and pined for Pan!_

He was _not_ dead! I found him there--
  The Pan that I was after!
Caught in that maiden's tangling hair,
  Drunk with her song and laughter!
I doubt if there be otherwhere
  A merrier god or dafter--
    _Nay, nor a mortal kindlier than
    Is this same dear old Pan!_

Beside me, as my pipe I play,
  My shepherdess is lying,
While here and there her lambkins stray
  As sunny hours go flying;
They look like me--those lambs--they say,
  And that I'm not denying!
    _And for that sturdy, romping clan,
    All glory be to Pan!_

Pan is not dead, O sweetheart mine!
  It is to hear his voices
In every note and every line
  Wherein the heart rejoices!
He liveth in that sacred shrine
  That Love's first, holiest choice is!
    _So pipe, my pipe, while still you can,
    Sweet songs in praise of Pan!_



    DR. SAM

    TO MISS GRACE KING

Down in the old French quarter,
  Just out of Rampart street,
    I wend my way
    At close of day
  Unto the quaint retreat
Where lives the Voodoo Doctor
  By some esteemed a sham,
Yet I'll declare there's none elsewhere
  So skilled as Doctor Sam
    _With the claws of a deviled crawfish,
      The juice of the prickly prune,
        And the quivering dew
        From a yarb that grew
      In the light of a midnight moon!_

I never should have known him
  But for the colored folk
    That here obtain
    And ne'er in vain
  That wizard's art invoke;
For when the Eye that's Evil
  Would him and his'n damn,
The negro's grief gets quick relief
  Of Hoodoo-Doctor Sam.
    _With the caul of an alligator,
      The plume of an unborn loon,
        And the poison wrung
        From a serpent's tongue
      By the light of a midnight moon!_

In all neurotic ailments
  I hear that he excels,
    And he insures
    Immediate cures
  Of weird, uncanny spells;
The most unruly patient
  Gets docile as a lamb
And is freed from ill by the potent skill
  Of Hoodoo-Doctor Sam;
    _Feathers of strangled chickens,
      Moss from the dank lagoon,_
    _And plasters wet
      With spider sweat
    In the light of a midnight moon!_

They say when nights are grewsome
  And hours are, oh! so late,
    Old Sam steals out
    And hunts about
  For charms that hoodoos hate!
That from the moaning river
  And from the haunted glen
He silently brings what eerie things
  Give peace to hoodooed men:--
  _The tongue of a piebald 'possum,
    The tooth of a senile 'coon,
  The buzzard's breath that smells of death,
    And the film that lies
    On a lizard's eyes
  In the light of a midnight moon!_



     WINFREDA

    (A BALLAD IN THE ANGLO-SAXON TONGUE)

When to the dreary greenwood gloam
  Winfreda's husband strode that day,
The fair Winfreda bode at home
  To toil the weary time away;
"While thou art gone to hunt," said she,
"I'll brew a goodly sop for thee."

Lo, from a further, gloomy wood,
  A hungry wolf all bristling hied
And on the cottage threshold stood
  And saw the dame at work inside;
And, as he saw the pleasing sight,
He licked his fangs so sharp and white.

Now when Winfreda saw the beast,
  Straight at the grinning wolf she ran,
And, not affrighted in the least,
  She hit him with her cooking pan,
And as she thwacked him on the head--
"Scat! scat!" the fair Winfreda said.

The hills gave answer to their din--
  The brook in fear beheld the sight.
And all that bloody field within
  Wore token of Winfreda's might.
The wolf was very loath to stay--
But, oh! he could not get away.

Winfreda swept him o'er the wold
  And choked him till his gums were blue,
And till, beneath her iron hold,
  His tongue hung out a yard or two,
And with his hair the riven ground
Was strewn for many leagues around.

They fought a weary time that day,
  And seas of purple blood were shed,
Till by Winfreda's cunning lay
  That awful wolf all limp and dead;
Winfreda saw him reel and drop--
Then back she went to brewing sop.

So when the husband came at night
  From bootless chase, cold, gaunt, and grim,
Great was that Saxon lord's delight
  To find the sop dished up for him;
And as he ate, Winfreda told
How she had laid the wolf out cold.

The good Winfreda of those days
  Is only "pretty Birdie" now--
Sickly her soul and weak her ways--
  And she, to whom we Saxons bow,
Leaps on a bench and screams with fright
If but a mouse creeps into sight.



    LYMAN, FREDERICK, AND JIM

    (FOR THE FELLOWSHIP CLUB)

Lyman and Frederick and Jim, one day,
  Set out in a great big ship--
Steamed to the ocean adown the bay
  Out of a New York slip.
"Where are you going and what is your game?"
  The people asked those three.
"Darned if we know; but all the same
  Happy as larks are we;
  And happier still we're going to be!"
    Said Lyman
    And Frederick
    And Jim.

The people laughed "Aha, oho!
  Oho, aha!" laughed they;
And while those three went sailing so
  Some pirates steered that way.
The pirates they were laughing, too--
  The prospect made them glad;
But by the time the job was through
  Each of them pirates, bold and bad,
Had been done out of all he had
    By Lyman
    And Frederick
    And Jim.

Days and weeks and months they sped,
  Painting that foreign clime
A beautiful, bright vermilion red--
  And having a ---- of a time!
'T was all so gaudy a lark, it seemed
  As if it could not be,
And some folks thought it a dream they dreamed
  Of sailing that foreign sea,
  But I'll identify you these three--
    Lyman
    And Frederick
    And Jim.

Lyman and Frederick are bankers and sich
  And Jim is an editor kind;
The first two named are awfully rich
  And Jim ain't far behind!
So keep your eyes open and mind your tricks,
  Or you are like to be
In quite as much of a Tartar fix
  As the pirates that sailed the sea
  And monkeyed with the pardners three,
    Lyman
    And Frederick
    And Jim!



    BY MY SWEETHEART

Sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  When birds are on the wing,
When bee and bud and babbling flood
  Bespeak the birth of spring,
Come, sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  And wear this posy-ring!

Sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  In the mellow golden glow
Of earth aflush with the gracious blush
  Which the ripening fields foreshow;
Dear sweetheart, be my sweetheart,
  As into the noon we go!

Sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  When falls the bounteous year,
When fruit and wine of tree and vine
  Give us their harvest cheer;
Oh, sweetheart, be my sweetheart,
  For winter it draweth near.

Sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  When the year is white and old,
When the fire of youth is spent, forsooth,
  And the hand of age is cold;
Yet, sweetheart, be my sweetheart
  Till the year of our love be told!






    ABU MIDJAN

_When Father Time swings round his scythe,
  Intomb me 'neath the bounteous vine,
So that its juices, red and blithe,
  May cheer these thirsty bones of mine._

_"Elsewise with tears and bated breath
  Should I survey the life to be.
But oh! How should I hail the death
  That brings that--vinous grace to me!"_

So sung the dauntless Saracen,
  Whereat the Prophet-Chief ordains
That, curst of Allah, loathed of men,
  The faithless one shall die in chains.

But one vile Christian slave that lay
  A prisoner near that prisoner saith:
"God willing, I will plant some day
  A vine where liest thou in death."

Lo, over Abu Midjan's grave
  With purpling fruit a vine-tree grows;
Where rots the martyred Christian slave
  Allah, and only Allah, knows!





    JENNIE

Some men affect a liking
  For the prim in face and mind,
And some prefer the striking
  And the loud in womankind;
Wee Madge is wooed of many,
  And buxom Kate, as well,
And Jennie--charming Jennie--
  Ah, Jennie doesn't tell!

What eyes so bright as Daisy's,
  And who as Maud so fair?
Who does not sing the praises
  Of Lucy's golden hair?
There's Sophie--she is witty,
  A very sprite is Nell,
And Susie's, oh, so pretty--
But Jennie doesn't tell!

And now for my confession:
  Of all the virtues rare,
I argue that discretion
  Doth most beseem the fair.
And though I hear the many
  Extol each other belle,
I--I pronounce for Jennie,
  For Jennie doesn't tell!



    CONTENTMENT

Happy the man that, when his day is done,
  Lies down to sleep with nothing of regret--
The battle he has fought may not be won--
  The fame he sought be just as fleeting yet;
Folding at last his hands upon his breast,
  Happy is he, if hoary and forespent,
He sinks into the last, eternal rest,
  Breathing these only works: "I am content."

But happier he, that, while his blood is warm,
  See hopes and friendships dead about him lie--
Bares his brave breast to envy's bitter storm,
  Nor shuns the poison barbs of calumny;
And 'mid it all, stands sturdy and elate,
  Girt only in the armor God hath meant
For him who 'neath the buffetings of fate
  Can say to God and man: "I am content."



    "GUESS"

There is a certain Yankee phrase
  I always have revered,
Yet, somehow, in these modern days,
  It's almost disappeared;
It was the usage years ago,
  But nowadays it's got
To be regarded coarse and low
  To answer: "I guess not!"

The height of fashion called the pink
  Affects a British craze--
Prefers "I fancy" or "I think"
  To that time-honored phrase;
But here's a Yankee, if you please,
  That brands the fashion rot,
And to all heresies like these
  He answers, "I--guess not!"--

When Chaucer, Wycliff, and the rest
  Express their meaning thus,
I guess, if not the very best,
  It's good enough for us!
Why! shall the idioms of our speech
  Be banished and forgot
For this vain trash which moderns teach?
  Well, no, sir; I guess not!

There's meaning in that homely phrase
  No other words express--
No substitute therefor conveys
  Such unobtrusive stress.
True Anglo-Saxon speech, it goes
  Directly to the spot,
And he who hears it always knows
  The worth of "I--guess--not!"






    OLD SPANISH SONG

I'm thinking of the wooing
  That won my maiden heart
When he--he came pursuing
  A love unused to art.
Into the drowsy river
  The moon transported flung
Her soul that seemed to quiver
  With the songs my lover sung.
And the stars in rapture twinkled
  On the slumbrous world below--
You see that, old and wrinkled,
  I'm not forgetful--no!

He still should be repeating
  The vows he uttered then--
Alas! the years, though fleeting,
  Are truer yet than men!
The summer moonlight glistens
  In the favorite trysting spot
Where the river ever listens
  For a song it heareth not.
And I, whose head is sprinkled
  With time's benumbing snow,
I languish, old and wrinkled,
  But not forgetful--no!

What though he elsewhere turneth
  To beauty strangely bold?
Still in my bosom burneth
  The tender fire of old;
And the words of love he told me
  And the songs he sung me then
Come crowding to uphold me,
  And I live my youth again!
For when love's feet have tinkled
  On the pathway women go,
Though one be old and wrinkled,
  She's not forgetful--no!



    THE BROKEN RING

To the willows of the brookside
  The mill wheel sings to-day--
    Sings and weeps,
    As the brooklet creeps
  Wondering on its way;
And here is the ring _she_ gave me
  With love's sweet promise then--
    It hath burst apart
    Like the trusting heart
  That may never be soothed again!

Oh, I would be a minstrel
  To wander far and wide,
Weaving in song the merciless wrong
  Done by a perjured bride!
Or I would be a soldier,
  To seek in the bloody fray
What gifts of fate can compensate
  For the pangs I suffer to-day!

Yet may this aching bosom,
  By bitter sorrow crushed,
    Be still and cold
    In the churchyard mould
  Ere _thy_ sweet voice be hushed;
So sing, sing on forever,
  O wheel of the brookside mill,
    For you mind me again
    Of the old time when
  I felt love's gracious thrill.



    IN PRAISE OF CONTENTMENT

    (HORACE'S ODES, III, I)

I hate the common, vulgar herd!
  Away they scamper when I "booh" 'em!
But pretty girls and nice young men
Observe a proper silence when
  I chose to sing my lyrics to 'em.

The kings of earth, whose fleeting pow'r
  Excites our homage and our wonder,
Are precious small beside old Jove,
The father of us all, who drove
  The giants out of sight, by thunder!

This man loves farming, that man law,
  While this one follows pathways martial--
What moots it whither mortals turn?
Grim fate from her mysterious urn
  Doles out the lots with hand impartial.

Nor sumptuous feasts nor studied sports
  Delight the heart by care tormented;
The mightiest monarch knoweth not
The peace that to the lowly cot
  Sleep bringeth to the swain contented.

On him untouched of discontent
  Care sits as lightly as a feather;
He doesn't growl about the crops,
Or worry when the market drops,
  Or fret about the changeful weather.

Not so with him who, rich in fact,
  Still seeks his fortune to redouble;
Though dig he deep or build he high,
Those scourges twain shall lurk anigh--
  Relentless Care, relentless Trouble!

If neither palaces nor robes
  Nor unguents nor expensive toddy
Insure Contentment's soothing bliss,
Why should I build an edifice
  Where Envy comes to fret a body?

Nay, I'd not share your sumptuous cheer,
  But rather sup my rustic pottage,
While that sweet boon the gods bestow--
The peace your mansions cannot know--
  Blesseth my lowly Sabine cottage.



    THE BALLAD OF THE TAYLOR PUP

Now lithe and listen, gentles all,
  Now lithe ye all and hark
Unto a ballad I shall sing
  About Buena Park.

Of all the wonders happening there
  The strangest hap befell
Upon a famous Aprile morn,
  As I you now shall tell.

It is about the Taylor pup
  And of his mistress eke
And of the prankish time they had
  That I am fain to speak.


    FITTE THE FIRST

The pup was of as noble mien
  As e'er you gazed upon;
They called his mother Lady
  And his father was a Don.

And both his mother and his sire
  Were of the race Bernard--
The family famed in histories
  And hymned of every bard.

His form was of exuberant mold,
  Long, slim, and loose of joints;
There never yet was pointer-dog
  So full as he of points.

His hair was like to yellow fleece,
  His eyes were black and kind,
And like a nodding, gilded plume
  His tail stuck up behind.

His bark was very, very fierce,
  And fierce his appetite,
Yet was it only things to eat
  That he was prone to bite.

But in that one particular
  He was so passing true
That never did he quit a meal
  Until he had got through.

Potatoes, biscuits, mush or hash,
  Joint, chop, or chicken limb--
So long as it was edible,
  'T was all the same to him!

And frequently when Hunger's pangs
  Assailed that callow pup,
He masticated boots and gloves
  Or chewed a door-mat up.

So was he much beholden of
  The folk that him did keep;
They loved him when he was awake
  And better still asleep.


    FITTE THE SECOND

Now once his master, lingering o'er
  His breakfast coffee-cup,
Observed unto his doting spouse:
  "You ought to wash the pup!"

"That shall I do this very day",
  His doting spouse replied;
"You will not know the pretty thing
  When he is washed and dried.

"But tell me, dear, before you go
  Unto your daily work,
Shall I use Ivory soap on him,
  Or Colgate, Pears' or Kirk?"

"Odzooks, it matters not a whit--
  They all are good to use!
Take Pearline, if it pleases you--
  Sapolio, if you choose!

"Take any soap, but take the pup
  And also water take,
And mix the three discreetly up
  Till they a lather make.

"Then mixing these constituent parts,
  Let Nature take her way,"
With which advice that sapient sir
  Had nothing more to say.

Then fared he to his daily toil
  All in the Board of Trade,
While Mistress Taylor for that bath
  Due preparation made.


  FITTE THE THIRD

She whistled gayly to the pup
  And called him by his name,
And presently the guileless thing
  All unsuspecting came.

But when she shut the bath-room door,
  And caught him as catch-can,
And hove him in that odious tub,
  His sorrows then began.

How did that callow, yallow thing
  Regret that Aprile morn--
Alas! how bitterly he rued
  The day that he was born!

Twice and again, but all in vain
  He lifted up his wail;
His voice was all the pup could lift,
  For thereby hangs this tale.

'Twas by that tail she held him down,
  And presently she spread
The creamy lather on his back,
  His stomach, and his head.

His ears hung down in sorry wise,
  His eyes were, oh! so sad--
He looked as though he just had lost
  The only friend he had.

And higher yet the water rose,
  The lather still increased,
And sadder still the countenance
  Of that poor martyred beast!

Yet all the time his mistress spoke
  Such artful words of cheer
As "Oh, how nice!" and "Oh, how clean!"
  And "There's a patient dear!"

At last the trial had an end,
  At last the pup was free;
She threw aside the bath-room door--
  "Now get you gone!" quoth she.


    FITTE THE FOURTH

Then from that tub and from that room
  He gat with vast ado;
At every hop he gave a shake,
  And--how the water flew!

He paddled down the winding stairs
  And to the parlor hied,
Dispensing pools of foamy suds
  And slop on every side.

Upon the carpet then he rolled
  And brushed against the wall,
And, horror! whisked his lathery sides
  On overcoat and shawl.

Attracted by the dreadful din,
  His mistress came below--
Who, who can speak her wonderment--
  Who, who can paint her woe!

Great smears of soap were here and there--
  Her startled vision met
With blobs of lather everywhere,
  And everything was wet!

Then Mrs. Taylor gave a shriek
  Like one about to die:
"Get out--get out, and don't you dare
  Come in till you are dry!"

With that she opened wide the door
  And waved the critter through;
Out in the circumambient air
  With grateful yelps he flew.


    FITTE THE FIFTH

He whisked into the dusty street
  And to the Waller lot,
Where bonnie Annie Evans played
  With charming Sissy Knott.

And with those pretty little dears
  He mixed himself all up--
Oh, fie upon such boisterous play--
  Fie, fie, you naughty pup!

Woe, woe on Annie's India mull,
  And Sissy's blue percale!
One got that pup's belathered flanks,
  And one his soapy tail!

Forth to the rescue of those maids
  Rushed gallant Willie Clow;
His panties they were white and clean--
  Where are those panties now?

Where is the nicely laundered shirt
  That Kendall Evans wore,
And Robbie James' tricot coat
  All buttoned up before?

The leaven, which, as we are told,
  Leavens a monstrous lump,
Hath far less reaching qualities
  Than a wet pup on the jump.

This way and that he swung and swayed,
  He gambolled far and near,
And everywhere he thrust himself
  He left a soapy smear.


    FITTE THE SIXTH

That noon a dozen little dears
  Were spanked and put to bed
With naught to stay their appetites
  But cheerless crusts of bread.

That noon a dozen hired girls
  Washed out each gown and shirt
Which that exuberant Taylor pup
  Had frescoed o'er with dirt.

That whole day long the Aprile sun
  Smiled sweetly from above
On clotheslines flaunting to the breeze
  The emblems mothers love.

That whole day long the Taylor pup
  This way and that did hie
Upon his mad, erratic course,
  Intent on getting dry.

That night when Mr. Taylor came
  His vesper meal to eat,
He uttered things my pious pen
  Would liefer not repeat.

Yet still that noble Taylor pup
  Survives to romp and bark
And stumble over folks and things
  In fair Buena Park.

Good sooth, I wot he should be called
  Buena's favorite son
Who's sired of such a noble sire
  And dammed by every one!



    AFTER READING TROLLOPE'S HISTORY OF FLORENCE

My books are on their shelves again
And clouds lie low with mist and rain.
Afar the Arno murmurs low
The tale of fields of melting snow.
List to the bells of times agone
The while I wait me for the dawn.

Beneath great Giotto's Campanile
The gray ghosts throng; their whispers steal
From poets' bosoms long since dust;
They ask me now to go. I trust
Their fleeter footsteps where again
They come at night and live as men.

The rain falls on Ghiberti's gates;
The big drops hang on purple dates;
And yet beneath the ilex-shades--
Dear trysting-place for boys and maids--
There comes a form from days of old,
With Beatrice's hair of gold.

The breath of lands or lilied streams
Floats through the fabric of my dreams;
And yonder from the hills of song,
Where psalmists brood and prophets throng,
The lone, majestic Dante leads
His love across the blooming meads.

Along the almond walks I tread
And greet the figures of the dead.
Mirandula walks here with him
Who lived with gods and seraphim;
Yet where Colonna's fair feet go
There passes Michael Angelo.

In Rome or Florence, still with her
Stands lone and grand her worshipper.
In Leonardo's brain there move
Christ and the children of His love;
And Raphael is touching now,
For the last time, an angel's brow.

Angelico is praying yet
Where lives no pang of man's regret,
And, mixing tears and prayers within
His palette's wealth, absolved from sin,
He dips his brush in hues divine;
San Marco's angel faces shine.

Within Lorenzo's garden green,
Where olives hide their boughs between,
The lovers, as they read betimes
Their love within Petrarca's lines,
Stand near the marbles found at Rome,
Lost shades that search in vain for home.

They pace the paths along the stream,
Dark Vallombrosa in their dream.
They sing, amidst the rain-drenched pines,
Of Tuscan gold that ruddier shines
Behind a saint's auroral face
That shows e'en yet the master's trace.

But lo, within the walls of gray,
E're yet there falls a glint of day,
And far without, from hill to vale,
Where honey-hearted nightingale
Or meads of pale anemones
Make sweet the coming morning breeze--

I hear a voice, of prophet tone,
A voice of doom, like his alone
That once in Gadara was heard;
The old walls trembled--lo, the bird
Has ceased to sing, and yonder waits
Lorenzo at his palace gates.

Some Romola in passing by
Turns toward the ruler, and his sigh
Wanders amidst the myrtle bowers
Or o'er the city's mantled towers,
For she is Florence! "Wilt thou hear
San Marco's prophet? Doom is near."

"Her liberties," he cries, "restore!
This much for Florence--yea, and more
To men and God!" The days are gone;
And in an hour of perfect dawn
I stand beneath the cypress trees
That shiver still with words like these.



    A LULLABY

The stars are twinkling in the skies,
  The earth is lost in slumbers deep;
So hush, my sweet, and close thine eyes,
  And let me lull thy soul to sleep.
Compose thy dimpled hands to rest,
  And like a little birdling lie
Secure within thy cozy nest
Upon my loving mother breast,
  And slumber to my lullaby,
  So hushaby--O hushaby.

The moon is singing to a star
  The little song I sing to you;
The father sun has strayed afar,
  As baby's sire is straying too.
And so the loving mother moon
  Sings to the little star on high;
And as she sings, her gentle tune
Is borne to me, and thus I croon
  For thee, my sweet, that lullaby
  Of hushaby--O hushaby.

There is a little one asleep
  That does not hear his mother's song;
But angel watchers--as I weep--
  Surround his grave the night-tide long.
And as I sing, my sweet, to you,
  Oh, would the lullaby I sing--
The same sweet lullaby he knew
While slumb'ring on this bosom too--
  Were borne to him on angel's wing!
  So hushaby--O hushaby.





    CHRISTMAS HYMN

    Sing, Christmas bells!
Say to the earth this is the morn
Whereon our Saviour-King is born;
  Sing to all men--the bond, the free,
The rich, the poor, the high, the low--
  The little child that sports in glee--
The aged folk that tottering go--
    Proclaim the morn
    That Christ is born,
  That saveth them and saveth me!

     Sing, angel host!
Sing of the star that God has placed
Above the manger in the east;
  Sing of the glories of the night,
The virgin's sweet humility,
  The Babe with kingly robes bedight--
Sing to all men where'er they be
    This Christmas morn,
    For Christ is born,
  That saveth them and saveth me!

    Sing, sons of earth!
O ransomed seed of Adam, sing!
God liveth, and we have a King!
  The curse is gone, the bond are free--
By Bethlehem's star that brightly beamed,
  By all the heavenly signs that be,
We know that Israel is redeemed--
    That on this morn
    The Christ is born
  That saveth you and saveth me!

    Sing, O my heart!
Sing thou in rapture this dear morn
Whereon the blessed Prince is born!
  And as thy songs shall be of love,
So let my deeds be charity--
  By the dear Lord that reigns above,
By Him that died upon the tree,
    By this fair morn
    Whereon is born
  The Christ that saveth all and me!



    A PARAPHRASE OF HEINE

    (LYRIC INTERMEZZO)

There fell a star from realms above--
  A glittering, glorious star to see!
Methought it was the star of love,
  So sweetly it illumined me.

And from the apple branches fell
  Blossoms and leaves that time in June;
The wanton breezes wooed them well
  With soft caress and amorous tune.

The white swan proudly sailed along
  And vied her beauty with her note--
The river, jealous of her song,
  Threw up its arms to clasp her throat.

But now--oh, now the dream is past--
  The blossoms and the leaves are dead,
The swan's sweet song is hushed at last,
  And not a star burns overhead.



    THE CONVALESCENT GRIPSTER

The gods let slip that fiendish grip
    Upon me last week Sunday--
No fiercer storm than racked my form
    E'er swept the Bay of Fundy;
  But now, good-by
  To drugs, say I--
    Good-by to gnawing sorrow;
  I am up to-day,
  And, whoop, hooray!
    I'm going out to-morrow!

What aches and pain in bones and brain
    I had I need not mention;
It seemed to me such pangs must be
    Old Satan's own invention;
  Albeit I
  Was sure I'd die,
    The doctor reassured me--
  And, true enough,
  With his vile stuff,
    He ultimately cured me.

As there I lay in bed all day,
    How fair outside looked to me!
A smile so mild old Nature smiled
    It seemed to warm clean through me.
  In chastened mood
  The scene I viewed,
    Inventing, sadly solus,
  Fantastic rhymes
  Between the times
    I had to take a bolus.

Of quinine slugs and other drugs
    I guess I took a million--
Such drugs as serve to set each nerve
    To dancing a cotillon;
  The doctors say
  The only way
    To rout the grip instanter
  Is to pour in
  All kinds of sin--
    Similibus curantur!

'Twas hard; and yet I'll soon forget
    Those ills and cures distressing;
One's future lies 'neath gorgeous skies
    When one is convalescing!
  So now, good-by
  To drugs say I--
    Good-by, thou phantom Sorrow!
  I am up to-day,
  And, whoop, hooray!
    I'm going out to-morrow.



    THE SLEEPING CHILD

My baby slept--how calm his rest,
  As o'er his handsome face a smile
  Like that of angel flitted, while
He lay so still upon my breast!

My baby slept--his baby head
  Lay all unkiss'd 'neath pall and shroud:
  I did not weep or cry aloud--
I only wished I, too, were dead!

My baby sleeps--a tiny mound,
  All covered by the little flowers,
  Woos me in all my waking hours,
Down in the quiet burying-ground.

And when I sleep I seem to be
  With baby in another land--
  I take his little baby hand--
He smiles and sings sweet songs to me.

Sleep on, O baby, while I keep
  My vigils till this day be passed!
  Then shall I, too, lie down at last,
And with my baby darling sleep.



    THE TWO COFFINS

In yonder old cathedral
  Two lovely coffins lie;
In one, the head of the state lies dead,
  And a singer sleeps hard by.

Once had that King great power
  And proudly ruled the land--
His crown e'en now is on his brow
  And his sword is in his hand.

How sweetly sleeps the singer
  With calmly folded eyes,
And on the breast of the bard at rest
  The harp that he sounded lies.

The castle walls are falling
  And war distracts the land,
But the sword leaps not from that mildewed spot
  There in that dead king's hand.

But with every grace of nature
  There seems to float along--
To cheer again the hearts of men
  The singer's deathless song.









DIVIDED.


I.

An empty sky, a world of heather,
  Purple of foxglove, yellow of broom;
We two among them wading together,
  Shaking out honey, treading perfume.

Crowds of bees are giddy with clover,
  Crowds of grasshoppers skip at our feet,
Crowds of larks at their matins hang over,
  Thanking the Lord for a life so sweet.

Flusheth the rise with her purple favor,
  Gloweth the cleft with her golden ring,
'Twixt the two brown butterflies waver,
  Lightly settle, and sleepily swing.

We two walk till the purple dieth
  And short dry grass under foot is brown.
But one little streak at a distance lieth
  Green like a ribbon to prank the down.


II.

Over the grass we stepped unto it,
  And God He knoweth how blithe we were!
Never a voice to bid us eschew it:
  Hey the green ribbon that showed so fair!

Hey the green ribbon! we kneeled beside it,
  We parted the grasses dewy and sheen;
Drop over drop there filtered and slided
  A tiny bright beck that trickled between.

Tinkle, tinkle, sweetly it sang to us,
  Light was our talk as of faëry bells--
Faëry wedding-bells faintly rung to us
  Down in their fortunate parallels.

Hand in hand, while the sun peered over,
  We lapped the grass on that youngling spring;
Swept back its rushes, smoothed its clover,
  And said, "Let us follow it westering."


III.

A dappled sky, a world of meadows,
  Circling above us the black rooks fly
Forward, backward; lo, their dark shadows
  Flit on the blossoming tapestry--

Flit on the beck, for her long grass parteth
  As hair from a maid's bright eyes blown back;
And, lo, the sun like a lover darteth
  His flattering smile on her wayward track.

Sing on! we sing in the glorious weather
  Till one steps over the tiny strand,
So narrow, in sooth, that still together
  On either brink we go hand in hand.

The beck grows wider, the hands must sever.
  On either margin, our songs all done,
We move apart, while she singeth ever,
  Taking the course of the stooping sun.

He prays, "Come over"--I may not follow;
  I cry, "Return"--but he cannot come:
We speak, we laugh, but with voices hollow;
  Our hands are hanging, our hearts are numb.


IV.

A breathing sigh, a sigh for answer,
  A little talking of outward things
The careless beck is a merry dancer,
  Keeping sweet time to the air she sings.

A little pain when the beck grows wider;
  "Cross to me now--for her wavelets swell."
"I may not cross,"--and the voice beside her
  Faintly reacheth, though heeded well.

No backward path; ah! no returning;
  No second crossing that ripple's flow:
"Come to me now, for the west is burning;
  Come ere it darkens;"--"Ah, no! ah, no!"

Then cries of pain, and arms outreaching--
  The beck grows wider and swift and deep:
Passionate words as of one beseeching--
  The loud beck drowns them; we walk, and weep.


V.

A yellow moon in splendor drooping,
  A tired queen with her state oppressed,
Low by rushes and swordgrass stooping,
  Lies she soft on the waves at rest.

The desert heavens have felt her sadness;
  Her earth will weep her some dewy tears;
The wild beck ends her tune of gladness,
  And goeth stilly as soul that fears.

We two walk on in our grassy places
  On either marge of the moonlit flood,
With the moon's own sadness in our faces,
  Where joy is withered, blossom and bud.


VI.

A shady freshness, chafers whirring,
  A little piping of leaf-hid birds;
A flutter of wings, a fitful stirring,
  A cloud to the eastward snowy as curds.

Bare grassy slopes, where kids are tethered
  Round valleys like nests all ferny-lined;
Round hills, with fluttering tree-tops feathered,
  Swell high in their freckled robes behind.

A rose-flush tender, a thrill, a quiver,
  When golden gleams to the tree-tops glide;
A flashing edge for the milk-white river,
  The beck, a river--with still sleek tide.

Broad and white, and polished as silver,
  On she goes under fruit-laden trees;
Sunk in leafage cooeth the culver,
  And 'plaineth of love's disloyalties.

Glitters the dew and shines the river,
  Up comes the lily and dries her bell;
But two are walking apart forever,
  And wave their hands for a mute farewell.


VII.

A braver swell, a swifter sliding;
  The river hasteth, her banks recede:
Wing-like sails on her bosom gliding
  Bear down the lily and drown the reed.

Stately prows are rising and bowing
  (Shouts of mariners winnow the air),
And level sands for banks endowing
  The tiny green ribbon that showed so fair.

While, O my heart! as white sails shiver,
  And crowds are passing, and banks stretch wide
How hard to follow, with lips that quiver,
  That moving speck on the far-off side!

Farther, farther--I see it--know it--
  My eyes brim over, it melts away:
Only my heart to my heart shall show it
  As I walk desolate day by day.


VII.

And yet I know past all doubting, truly--
  A knowledge greater than grief can dim--
I know, as he loved, he will love me duly--
  Yea better--e'en better than I love him.

And as I walk by the vast calm river,
  The awful river so dread to see,
I say, "Thy breadth and thy depth forever
  Are bridged by his thoughts that cross to me."




HONORS.--PART I.

(_A Scholar is musing on his want of success._)


To strive--and fail. Yes, I did strive and fail;
  I set mine eyes upon a certain night
To find a certain star--and could not hail
      With them its deep-set light.

Fool that I was! I will rehearse my fault:
  I, wingless, thought myself on high to lift
Among the winged--I set these feet that halt
      To run against the swift.

And yet this man, that loved me so, can write--
  That loves me, I would say, can let me see;
Or fain would have me think he counts but light
      These Honors lost to me.

         (_The letter of his friend._)
"What are they? that old house of yours which gave
  Such welcome oft to me, the sunbeams fall
Yet, down the squares of blue and white which pave
      Its hospitable hall.

"A brave old house! a garden full of bees,
  Large dropping poppies, and Queen hollyhocks,
With butterflies for crowns--tree peonies
      And pinks and goldilocks.

"Go, when the shadow of your house is long
  Upon the garden--when some new-waked bird.
Pecking and fluttering, chirps a sudden song,
      And not a leaf is stirred;

"But every one drops dew from either edge
  Upon its fellow, while an amber ray
Slants up among the tree-tops like a wedge
      Of liquid gold--to play

"Over and under them, and so to fall
  Upon that lane of water lying below--
That piece of sky let in, that you do call
      A pond, but which I know

"To be a deep and wondrous world; for I
  Have seen the trees within it--marvellous things
So thick no bird betwixt their leaves could fly
      But she would smite her wings;--

"Go there, I say; stand at the water's brink,
  And shoals of spotted barbel you shall see
Basking between the shadows--look, and think
      'This beauty is for me;

"'For me this freshness in the morning hours,
  For me the water's clear tranquillity;
For me the soft descent of chestnut flowers;
      The cushat's cry for me.

"'The lovely laughter of the wind-swayed wheat
  The easy slope of yonder pastoral hill;
The sedgy brook whereby the red kine meet
      And wade and drink their fill.'

"Then saunter down that terrace whence the sea
  All fair with wing-like sails you may discern;
Be glad, and say 'This beauty is for me--
      A thing to love and learn.

"'For me the bounding in of tides; for me
  The laying bare of sands when they retreat;
The purple flush of calms, the sparkling glee
      When waves and sunshine meet.'

"So, after gazing, homeward turn, and mount
  To that long chamber in the roof; there tell
Your heart the laid-up lore it holds to count
      And prize and ponder well.

"The lookings onward of the race before
  It had a past to make it look behind;
Its reverent wonder, and its doubting sore,
      Its adoration blind.

"The thunder of its war-songs, and the glow
  Of chants to freedom by the old world sung;
The sweet love cadences that long ago
      Dropped from the old-world tongue.

"And then this new-world lore that takes account
  Of tangled star-dust; maps the triple whirl
Of blue and red and argent worlds that mount
      And greet the IRISH EARL;

"Or float across the tube that HERSCHEL sways,
  Like pale-rose chaplets, or like sapphire mist;
Or hang or droop along the heavenly ways,
      Like scarves of amethyst.

"O strange it is and wide the new-world lore,
  For next it treateth of our native dust!
Must dig out buried monsters, and explore
      The green earth's fruitful crust;

"Must write the story of her seething youth--
  How lizards paddled in her lukewarm seas;
Must show the cones she ripened, and forsooth
      Count seasons on her trees;

"Must know her weight, and pry into her age,
  Count her old beach lines by their tidal swell;
Her sunken mountains name, her craters gauge,
      Her cold volcanoes tell;

"And treat her as a ball, that one might pass
  From this hand to the other--such a ball
As he could measure with a blade of grass,
      And say it was but small!

"Honors! O friend, I pray you bear with me:
  The grass hath time to grow in meadow lands,
And leisurely the opal murmuring sea
      Breaks on her yellow sands;

"And leisurely the ring-dove on her nest
  Broods till her tender chick will peck the shell
And leisurely down fall from ferny crest
      The dew-drops on the well;

"And leisurely your life and spirit grew,
  With yet the time to grow and ripen free:
No judgment past withdraws that boon from you,
      Nor granteth it to me.

"Still must I plod, and still in cities moil;
  From precious leisure, learned leisure far,
Dull my best self with handling common soil;
      Yet mine those honors are.

"Mine they are called; they are a name which means,
  'This man had steady pulses, tranquil nerves:
Here, as in other fields, the most he gleans
      Who works and never swerves.

"We measure not his mind; we cannot tell
  What lieth under, over, or beside
The test we put him to; he doth excel,
    We know, where he is tried;

"But, if he boast some farther excellence--
  Mind to create as well as to attain;
To sway his peers by golden eloquence,
    As wind doth shift a fane;

"'To sing among the poets--we are nought:
  We cannot drop a line into that sea
And read its fathoms off, nor gauge a thought,
    Nor map a simile.

"'It may be of all voices sublunar
  The only one he echoes we did try;
We may have come upon the only star
    That twinkles in his sky,'

"And so it was with me."
                         O false my friend!
  False, false, a random charge, a blame undue;
Wrest not fair reasoning to a crooked end:
    False, false, as you are true!

But I read on: "And so it was with me;
  Your golden constellations lying apart
They neither hailed nor greeted heartily,
    Nor noted on their chart.

"And yet to you and not to me belong
  Those finer instincts that, like second sight
And hearing, catch creation's undersong,
      And see by inner light.

"You are a well, whereon I, gazing, see
  Reflections of the upper heavens--a well
From whence come deep, deep echoes up to me--
      Some underwave's low swell.

"I cannot soar into the heights you show,
  Nor dive among the deeps that you reveal;
But it is much that high things ARE to know,
      That deep things ARE to feel.

"'Tis yours, not mine, to pluck out of your breast
  Some human truth, whose workings recondite
Were unattired in words, and manifest
      And hold it forth to light

"And cry, 'Behold this thing that I have found,'
  And though they knew not of it till that day,
Nor should have done with no man to expound
      Its meaning, yet they say,

"'We do accept it: lower than the shoals
  We skim, this diver went, nor did create,
But find it for us deeper in our souls
      Than we can penetrate.'

"You were to me the world's interpreter,
  The man that taught me Nature's unknown tongue,
And to the notes of her wild dulcimer
      First set sweet words, and sung.

"And what am I to you? A steady hand
  To hold, a steadfast heart to trust withal;
Merely a man that loves you, and will stand
      By you, whatever befall.

"But need we praise his tendance tutelar
  Who feeds a flame that warms him? Yet 'tis true
I love you for the sake of what you are,
      And not of what you do:--

"As heaven's high twins, whereof in Tyrian blue
  The one revolveth: through his course immense
Might love his fellow of the damask hue,
      For like, and difference.

"For different pathways evermore decreed
  To intersect, but not to interfere;
For common goal, two aspects, and one speed,
      One centre and one year;

"For deep affinities, for drawings strong,
  That by their nature each must needs exert;
For loved alliance, and for union long,
      That stands before desert.

"And yet desert makes brighter not the less,
  For nearest his own star he shall not fail
To think those rays unmatched for nobleness,
      That distance counts but pale.

"Be pale afar, since still to me you shine,
  And must while Nature's eldest law shall hold;"--
Ah, there's the thought which makes his random line
      Dear as refinèd gold!

Then shall I drink this draft of oxymel,
  Part sweet, part sharp? Myself o'erprized to know
Is sharp; the cause is sweet, and truth to tell
      Few would that cause forego,

Which is, that this of all the men on earth
  Doth love me well enough to count me great--
To think my soul and his of equal girth--
      O liberal estimate!

And yet it is so; he is bound to me,
  For human love makes aliens near of kin;
By it I rise, there is equality:
      I rise to thee, my twin.

"Take courage"--courage! ay, my purple peer
  I will take courage; for thy Tyrian rays
Refresh me to the heart, and strangely dear
      And healing is thy praise.

"Take courage," quoth he, "and respect the mind
  Your Maker gave, for good your fate fulfil;
The fate round many hearts your own to wind."
      Twin soul, I will! I will!






HONORS.--PART II.

(_The Answer._)


As one who, journeying, checks the rein in haste
  Because a chasm doth yawn across his way
Too wide for leaping, and too steeply faced
      For climber to essay--

As such an one, being brought to sudden stand,
  Doubts all his foregone path if 'twere the true,
And turns to this and then to the other hand
      As knowing not what to do,--

So I, being checked, am with my path at strife
  Which led to such a chasm, and there doth end.
False path! it cost me priceless years of life,
      My well-beloved friend.

There fell a flute when Ganymede went up--
  The flute that he was wont to play upon:
It dropped beside the jonquil's milk-white cup,
      And freckled cowslips wan--

Dropped from his heedless hand when, dazed and mute,
  He sailed upon the eagle's quivering wing,
Aspiring, panting--aye, it dropped--the flute
      Erewhile a cherished thing.

Among the delicate grasses and the bells
  Of crocuses that spotted a rill side,
I picked up such a flute, and its clear swells
      To my young lips replied.

I played thereon, and its response was sweet;
  But lo, they took from me that solacing reed.
"O shame!" they said; "such music is not meet;
      Go up like Ganymede.

"Go up, despise these humble grassy things,
  Sit on the golden edge of yonder cloud."
Alas! though ne'er for me those eagle wings
      Stooped from their eyry proud.

My flute! and flung away its echoes sleep;
  But as for me, my life-pulse beateth low;
And like a last-year's leaf enshrouded deep
      Under the drifting snow,

Or like some vessel wrecked upon the sand
  Of torrid swamps, with all her merchandise,
And left to rot betwixt the sea and land,
      My helpless spirit lies.

Rueing, I think for what then was I made;
  What end appointed for--what use designed?
Now let me right this heart that was bewrayed--
      Unveil these eyes gone blind.

My well-beloved friend, at noon to-day
  Over our cliffs a white mist lay unfurled,
So thick, one standing on their brink might say,
      Lo, here doth end the world.

A white abyss beneath, and nought beside;
  Yet, hark! a cropping sound not ten feet down:
Soon I could trace some browsing lambs that hied
      Through rock-paths cleft and brown.

And here and there green tufts of grass peered through,
  Salt lavender, and sea thrift; then behold
The mist, subsiding ever, bared to view
      A beast of giant mould.

She seemed a great sea-monster lying content
  With all her cubs about her: but deep--deep--
The subtle mist went floating; its descent
      Showed the world's end was steep.

It shook, it melted, shaking more, till, lo,
  The sprawling monster was a rock; her brood
Were boulders, whereon sea-mews white as snow
      Sat watching for their food.

Then once again it sank, its day was done:
  Part rolled away, part vanished utterly,
And glimmering softly under the white sun,
      Behold! a great white sea.

O that the mist which veileth my To-come
  Would so dissolve and yield unto mine eyes
A worthy path! I'd count not wearisome
      Long toil, nor enterprise,

But strain to reach it; ay, with wrestlings stout
  And hopes that even in the dark will grow
(Like plants in dungeons, reaching feelers out),
      And ploddings wary and slow.

Is there such path already made to fit
  The measure of my foot? It shall atone
For much, if I at length may light on it
      And know it for mine own.

But is there none? why, then, 'tis more than well:
  And glad at heart myself will hew one out,
Let me he only sure; for, sooth to tell,
      The sorest dole is doubt--

Doubt, a blank twilight of the heart, which mars
  All sweetest colors in its dimness same;
A soul-mist, through whose rifts familiar stare
      Beholding, we misname.

A ripple on the inner sea, which shakes
  Those images that on its breast reposed;
A fold upon a wind-swayed flag, that breaks
      The motto it disclosed.

O doubt! O doubt! I know my destiny;
  I feel thee fluttering bird-like in my breast;
I cannot loose, but I will sing to thee,
      And flatter thee to rest.

There is no certainty, "my bosom's guest,"
  No proving for the things whereof ye wot;
For, like the dead to sight unmanifest,
      They are, and they are not.

But surely as they are, for God is truth,
  And as they are not, for we saw them die,
So surely from the heaven drops light for youth,
      If youth will walk thereby.

And can I see this light? It may be so;
  "But see it thus and thus," my fathers said.
The living do not rule this world; ah no!
      It is the dead, the dead.

Shall I be slave to every noble soul,
  Study the dead, and to their spirits bend;
Or learn to read my own heart's folded scroll,
      And make self-rule my end?

Thought from _without_--O shall I take on trust,
  And life from others modelled steal or win;
Or shall I heave to light, and clear of rust
      My true life from _within_?

O, let me be myself! But where, O where,
  Under this heap of precedent, this mound
Of customs, modes, and maxims, cumbrance rare,
      Shall the Myself be found?

O thou _Myself_, thy fathers thee debarred
  None of their wisdom, but their folly came
Therewith; they smoothed thy path, but made it hard
      For thee to quit the same.

With glosses they obscured God's natural truth,
  And with tradition tarnished His revealed;
With vain protections they endangered youth,
      With layings bare they sealed.

What aileth thee, myself? Alas! thy hands
  Are tied with old opinions--heir and son,
Thou hast inherited thy father's lands
      And all his debts thereon.

O that some power would give me Adam's eyes!
  O for the straight simplicity of Eve!
For I see nought, or grow, poor fool, too wise
      With seeing to believe.

Exemplars may be heaped until they hide
  The rules that they were made to render plain;
Love may be watched, her nature to decide,
      Until love's self doth wane.

Ah me! and when forgotten and foregone
  We leave the learning of departed days,
And cease the generations past to con,
      Their wisdom and their ways,--

When fain to learn we lean into the dark,
  And grope to feel the floor of the abyss,
Or find the secret boundary lines which mark
      Where soul and matter kiss--

Fair world! these puzzled souls of ours grow weak
  With beating their bruised wings against the rim
That bounds their utmost flying, when they seek
      The distant and the dim.

We pant, we strain like birds against their wires;
  Are sick to reach the vast and the beyond;--
And what avails, if still to our desires
      Those far-off gulfs respond?

Contentment comes not therefore; still there lies
  An outer distance when the first is hailed,
And still forever yawns before our eyes
      An UTMOST--that is veiled.

Searching those edges of the universe,
  We leave the central fields a fallow part;
To feed the eye more precious things amerce,
      And starve the darkened heart.

Then all goes wrong: the old foundations rock;
  One scorns at him of old who gazed unshod;
One striking with a pickaxe thinks the shock
      Shall move the seat of God.

A little way, a very little way
  (Life is so short), they dig into the rind,
And they are very sorry, so they say,--
      Sorry for what they find.

But truth is sacred--ay, and must be told:
  There is a story long beloved of man;
We must forego it, for it will not hold--
      Nature had no such plan.

And then, if "God hath said it," some should cry,
  We have the story from the fountain-head:
Why, then, what better than the old reply,
      The first "Yea, HATH God said?"

The garden, O the garden, must it go,
  Source of our hope and our most dear regret?
The ancient story, must it no more show
      How man may win it yet?

And all upon the Titan child's decree,
  The baby science, born but yesterday,
That in its rash unlearned infancy
      With shells and stones at play,

And delving in the outworks of this world,
  And little crevices that it could reach,
Discovered certain bones laid up, and furled
      Under an ancient beach,

And other waifs that lay to its young mind
  Some fathoms lower than they ought to lie,
By gain whereof it could not fail to find
      Much proof of ancientry,

Hints at a Pedigree withdrawn and vast,
  Terrible deeps, and old obscurities,
Or soulless origin, and twilight passed
      In the primeval seas,

Whereof it tells, as thinking it hath been
  Of truth not meant for man inheritor;
As if this knowledge Heaven had ne'er foreseen
      And not provided for!

Knowledge ordained to live! although the fate
  Of much that went before it was--to die,
And be called ignorance by such as wait
      Till the next drift comes by.

O marvellous credulity of man!
  If God indeed kept secret, couldst thou know
Or follow up the mighty Artisan
      Unless He willed it so?

And canst thou of the Maker think in sooth
  That of the Made He shall be found at fault,
And dream of wresting from Him hidden truth
      By force or by assault?

But if He keeps not secret--if thine eyes
  He openeth to His wondrous work of late--
Think how in soberness thy wisdom lies,
      And have the grace to wait.

Wait, nor against the half-learned lesson fret,
  Nor chide at old belief as if it erred,
Because thou canst not reconcile as yet
      The Worker and the word.

Either the Worker did in ancient days
  Give us the word, His tale of love and might;
(And if in truth He gave it us, who says
      He did not give it right?)

Or else He gave it not, and then indeed
  We know not if HE is--by whom our years
Are portioned, who the orphan moons doth lead,
      And the unfathered spheres.

We sit unowned upon our burial sod
  And know not whence we come or whose we be,
Comfortless mourners for the mount of God,
      The rocks of Calvary:

Bereft of heaven, and of the long-loved page
  Wrought us by some who thought with death to cope.
Despairing comforters, from age to age
      Sowing the seeds of hope:

Gracious deceivers, who have lifted us
  Out of the slough where passed our unknown youth.
Beneficent liars, who have gifted us
      With sacred love of truth!

Farewell to them: yet pause ere thou unmoor
  And set thine ark adrift on unknown seas;
How wert thou bettered so, or more secure
      Thou, and thy destinies?

And if thou searchest, and art made to fear
  Facing of unread riddles dark and hard,
And mastering not their majesty austere,
      Their meaning locked and barred:

How would it make the weight and wonder less,
  If, lifted from immortal shoulders down,
The worlds were cast on seas of emptiness
      In realms without a crown.

And (if there were no God) were left to rue
  Dominion of the air and of the fire?
Then if there be a God, "Let God be true,
      And every man a liar."

But as for me, I do not speak as one
  That is exempt: I am with life at feud:
My heart reproacheth me, as there were none
      Of so small gratitude.

Wherewith shall I console thee, heart o' mine.
  And still thy yearning and resolve thy doubt?
That which I know, and that which I divine,
      Alas! have left thee out.

I have aspired to know the might of God,
  As if the story of His love was furled,
Nor sacred foot the grasses e'er had trod
      Of this redeemèd world:--

Have sunk my thoughts as lead into the deep,
  To grope for that abyss whence evil grew,
And spirits of ill, with eyes that cannot weep,
      Hungry and desolate flew;

As if their legions did not one day crowd
  The death-pangs of the Conquering Good to see!
As if a sacred head had never bowed
      In death for man--for me;

Nor ransomed back the souls beloved, the sons
  Of men, from thraldom with the nether kings
In that dark country where those evil ones
      Trail their unhallowed wings.

And didst Thou love the race that loved not Thee,
  And didst Thou take to heaven a human brow?
Dost plead with man's voice by the marvellous sea?
      Art Thou his kinsman now?

O God, O kinsman loved, but not enough!
  O man, with eyes majestic after death,
Whose feet have toiled along our pathways rough,
     Whose lips drawn human breath!

By that one likeness which is ours and Thine,
  By that one nature which doth hold us kin,
By that high heaven where, sinless, Thou dost shine
      To draw us sinners in,

By Thy last silence in the judgment-hall,
  By long foreknowledge of the deadly tree,
By darkness, by the wormwood and the gall,
      I pray Thee visit me.

Come, lest this heart should, cold and cast away,
  Die ere the guest adored she entertain--
Lest eyes which never saw Thine earthly day
      Should miss Thy heavenly reign.

Come, weary-eyed from seeking in the night
  Thy wanderers strayed upon the pathless wold,
Who wounded, dying, cry to Thee for light,
      And cannot find their fold.

And deign, O Watcher, with the sleepless brow,
  Pathetic in its yearning--deign reply:
Is there, O is there aught that such as Thou
      Wouldst take from such as I?

Are there no briers across Thy pathway thrust?
  Are there no thorns that compass it about?
Nor any stones that Thou wilt deign to trust
      My hands to gather out?

O if Thou wilt, and if such bliss might be,
  It were a cure for doubt, regret, delay--
Let my lost pathway go--what aileth me?--
      There is a better way.

What though unmarked the happy workman toil,
  And break unthanked of man the stubborn clod?
It is enough, for sacred is the soil,
      Dear are the hills of God.

Far better in its place the lowliest bird
  Should sing aright to Him the lowliest song,
Than that a seraph strayed should take the word
      And sing His glory wrong.

Friend, it is time to work. I say to thee,
  Thou dost all earthly good by much excel;
Thou and God's blessing are enough for me:
       My work, my work--farewell!






Mother sings to the infant

    Playing on the virginals,
      Who but I? Sae glad, sae free,
    Smelling for all cordials,
      The green mint and marjorie;
    Set among the budding broom,
      Kingcup and daffodilly;
    By my side I made him room:
      O love my Willie!

    "Like me, love me, girl o' gowd,"
      Sang he to my nimble strain;
    Sweet his ruddy lips o'erflowed
      Till my heartstrings rang again:
    By the broom, the bonny broom,
      Kingcup and daffodilly,
    In my heart I made him room:
      O love my Willie!

    "Pipe and play, dear heart," sang he,
      "I must go, yet pipe and play;
    Soon I'll come and ask of thee
      For an answer yea or nay;"
    And I waited till the flocks
      Panted in yon waters stilly,
    And the corn stood in the shocks:
      O love my Willie!

    I thought first when thou didst come
      I would wear the ring for thee,
    But the year told out its sum,
      Ere again thou sat'st by me;
    Thou hadst nought to ask that day
      By kingcup and daffodilly;
    I said neither yea nor nay:
      O love my Willie!



    My neighbor White--we met to-day--
    He always had a cheerful way,
      As if he breathed at ease;
    My neighbor White lives down the glade,
    And I live higher, in the shade
      Of my old walnut-trees.

    So many lads and lasses small,
    To feed them all, to clothe them all,
      Must surely tax his wit;
    I see his thatch when I look out,
    His branching roses creep about,
      And vines half smother it.

    There white-haired urchins climb his eaves,
    And little watch-fires heap with leaves,
      And milky filberts hoard;
    And there his oldest daughter stands
    With downcast eyes and skilful hands
      Before her ironing-board.

    She comforts all her mother's days,
    And with her sweet obedient ways
      She makes her labor light;
    So sweet to hear, so fair to see!
    O, she is much too good for me,
      That lovely Lettice White!

    'Tis hard to feel one's self a fool!
    With that same lass I went to school--
      I then was great and wise;
    She read upon an easier book,
    And I--I never cared to look
      Into her shy blue eyes.

    And now I know they must be there
    Sweet eyes, behind those lashes fair
      That will not raise their rim:
    If maids be shy, he cures who can;
    But if a man be shy--a man--
      Why then the worse for him!

    My mother cries, "For such a lad
    A wife is easy to be had
      And always to be found;
    A finer scholar scarce can be,
    And for a foot and leg," says she,
      "He beats the country round!

    "My handsome boy must stoop his head
    To clear her door whom he would wed."
      Weak praise, but fondly sung!
    "O mother! scholars sometimes fail--
    And what can foot and leg avail
      To him that wants a tongue?"

    When by her ironing-board I sit,
    Her little sisters round me flit,
      And bring me forth their store;
    Dark cluster grapes of dusty blue,
    And small sweet apples bright of hue
      And crimson to the core.

    But she abideth silent, fair,
    All shaded by her flaxen hair
      The blushes come and go;
    I look, and I no more can speak
    Than the red sun that on her cheek
      Smiles as he lieth low.

    Sometimes the roses by the latch
    Or scarlet vine-leaves from her thatch
      Come sailing down like birds;
    When from their drifts her board I clear,
    She thanks me, but I scarce can hear
      The shyly uttered words.

    Oft have I wooed sweet Lettice White
    By daylight and by candlelight
      When we two were apart.
    Some better day come on apace,
    And let me tell her face to face,
      "Maiden, thou hast my heart."

    How gently rock yon poplars high
    Against the reach of primrose sky
      With heaven's pale candles stored!
    She sees them all, sweet Lettice White;
    I'll e'en go sit again to-night
      Beside her ironing-board!




SCHOLAR AND CARPENTER.


While ripening corn grew thick and deep,
And here and there men stood to reap,
One morn I put my heart to sleep,
  And to the lanes I took my way.
The goldfinch on a thistle-head
Stood scattering seedlets while she fed;
The wrens their pretty gossip spread,
  Or joined a random roundelay.

On hanging cobwebs shone the dew,
And thick the wayside clovers grew;
The feeding bee had much to do,
  So fast did honey-drops exude:
She sucked and murmured, and was gone,
And lit on other blooms anon,
The while I learned a lesson on
  The source and sense of quietude.

For sheep-bells chiming from a wold,
Or bleat of lamb within its fold,
Or cooing of love-legends old
  To dove-wives make not quiet less;
Ecstatic chirp of wingèd thing,
Or bubbling of the water-spring,
Are sounds that more than silence bring
  Itself and its delightsomeness.

While thus I went to gladness fain,
I had but walked a mile or twain
Before my heart woke up again,
  As dreaming she had slept too late;
The morning freshness that she viewed
With her own meanings she endued,
And touched with her solicitude
  The natures she did meditate.

"If quiet is, for it I wait;
To it, ah! let me wed my fate,
And, like a sad wife, supplicate
  My roving lord no more to flee;
If leisure is--but, ah! 'tis not--
'Tis long past praying for, God wot;
The fashion of it men forgot,
  About the age of chivalry.

"Sweet is the leisure of the bird;
She craves no time for work deferred;
Her wings are not to aching stirred
  Providing for her helpless ones.
Fair is the leisure of the wheat;
All night the damps about it fleet;
All day it basketh in the heat,
  And grows, and whispers orisons.

"Grand is the leisure of the earth;
She gives her happy myriads birth,
And after harvest fears not dearth,
  But goes to sleep in snow-wreaths dim.
Dread is the leisure up above
The while He sits whose name is Love,
And waits, as Noah did, for the dove,
  To wit if she would fly to him.

"He waits for us, while, houseless things,
We beat about with bruisèd wings
On the dark floods and water-springs,
  The ruined world, the desolate sea;
With open windows from the prime
All night, all day, He waits sublime,
Until the fulness of the time
  Decreed from His eternity.

"Where is OUR leisure?--give us rest.
Where is the quiet we possessed?
We must have had it once--were blest
  With peace whose phantoms yet entice.
Sorely the mother of mankind
Longed for the garden left behind;
For we prove yet some yearnings blind
  Inherited from Paradise."

"Hold, heart!" I cried; "for trouble sleeps;
I hear no sound of aught that weeps;
I will not look into thy deeps--
  I am afraid, I am afraid!"
"Afraid!" she saith; "and yet 'tis true
That what man dreads he still should view--
Should do the thing he fears to do,
  And storm the ghosts in ambuscade."

"What good?" I sigh. "Was reason meant
To straighten branches that are bent,
Or soothe an ancient discontent,
  The instinct of a race dethroned?
Ah! doubly should that instinct go
Must the four rivers cease to flow,
Nor yield those rumors sweet and low
  Wherewith man's life is undertoned."

"Yet had I but the past," she cries,
"And it was lost, I would arise
And comfort me some other wise.
  But more than loss about me clings:
I am but restless with my race;
The whispers from a heavenly place,
Once dropped among us, seem to chase
  Rest with their prophet-visitings.

"The race is like a child, as yet
Too young for all things to be set
Plainly before him with no let
  Or hindrance meet for his degree;
But nevertheless by much too old
Not to perceive that men withhold
More of the story than is told,
  And so infer a mystery.

"If the Celestials daily fly
With messages on missions high,
And float, our masts and turrets nigh,
  Conversing on Heaven's great intents;
What wonder hints of coming things,
Whereto man's hope and yearning clings,
Should drop like feathers from their wings
  And give us vague presentiments?

"And as the waxing moon can take
The tidal waters in her wake,
And lead them round and round to break
  Obedient to her drawings dim;
So may the movements of His mind,
The first Great Father of mankind,
Affect with answering movements blind,
  And draw the souls that breathe by Him.

"We had a message long ago
That like a river peace should flow,
And Eden bloom again below.
  We heard, and we began to wait:
Full soon that message men forgot;
Yet waiting is their destined lot,
And waiting for they know not what
  They strive with yearnings passionate.

"Regret and faith alike enchain;
There was a loss, there comes a gain;
We stand at fault betwixt the twain,
  And that is veiled for which we pant.
Our lives are short, our ten times seven;
We think the councils held in heaven
Sit long, ere yet that blissful leaven
  Work peace amongst the militant.

"Then we blame God that sin should be;
Adam began it at the tree,
'The woman whom THOU gavest me;
  And we adopt his dark device.
O long Thou tarriest! come and reign,
And bring forgiveness in Thy train,
And give us in our hands again
  The apples of Thy Paradise."

"Far-seeing heart! if that be all
The happy things that did not fall,"
I sighed, "from every coppice call
  They never from that garden went.
Behold their joy, so comfort thee,
Behold the blossom and the bee,
For they are yet as good and free
  As when poor Eve was innocent

"But reason thus: 'If we sank low,
If the lost garden we forego,
Each in his day, nor ever know
  But in our poet souls its face;
Yet we may rise until we reach
A height untold of in its speech--
A lesson that it could not teach
  Learn in this darker dwelling-place.

"And reason on: 'We take the spoil;
Loss made us poets, and the soil
Taught us great patience in our toil,
  And life is kin to God through death.
Christ were not One with us but so,
And if bereft of Him we go;
Dearer the heavenly mansions grow,
  HIS home, to man that wandereth.'

"Content thee so, and ease thy smart."
With that she slept again, my heart,
And I admired and took my part
  With crowds of happy things the while:
With open velvet butterflies
That swung and spread their peacock eyes,
As if they cared no more to rise
  From off their beds of camomile.

The blackcaps in an orchard met,
Praising the berries while they ate:
The finch that flew her beak to whet
  Before she joined them on the tree;
The water mouse among the reeds--
His bright eyes glancing black as beads,
So happy with a bunch of seeds--
  I felt their gladness heartily.

But I came on, I smelt the hay,
And up the hills I took my way,
And down them still made holiday,
  And walked, and wearied not a whit;
But ever with the lane I went
Until it dropped with steep descent,
Cut deep into the rock, a tent
  Of maple branches roofing it.

Adown the rock small runlets wept,
And reckless ivies leaned and crept,
And little spots of sunshine slept
  On its brown steeps and made them fair;
And broader beams athwart it shot,
Where martins cheeped in many a knot,
For they had ta'en a sandy plot
  And scooped another Petra there.

And deeper down, hemmed in and hid
From upper light and life amid
The swallows gossiping, I thrid
  Its mazes, till the dipping land
Sank to the level of my lane.
That was the last hill of the chain,
And fair below I saw the plain
  That seemed cold cheer to reprimand.

Half-drowned in sleepy peace it lay,
As satiate with the boundless play
Of sunshine in its green array.
  And clear-cut hills of gloomy blue,
To keep it safe rose up behind,
As with a charmèd ring to bind
The grassy sea, where clouds might find
  A place to bring their shadows to.

I said, and blest that pastoral grace,
"How sweet thou art, thou sunny place!
Thy God approves thy smiling face:"
  But straight my heart put in her word;
She said, "Albeit thy face I bless,
There have been times, sweet wilderness,
When I have wished to love thee less,
  Such pangs thy smile administered."

But, lo! I reached a field of wheat,
And by its gate full clear and sweet
A workman sang, while at his feet
  Played a young child, all life and stir--
A three years' child, with rosy lip,
Who in the song had partnership,
Made happy with each falling chip
  Dropped by the busy carpenter.

This, reared a new gate for the old,
And loud the tuneful measure rolled,
But stopped as I came up to hold
  Some kindly talk of passing things.
Brave were his eyes, and frank his mien;
Of all men's faces, calm or keen,
A better I have never seen
  In all my lonely wanderings.

And how it was I scarce can tell,
We seemed to please each other well;
I lingered till a noonday bell
  Had sounded, and his task was done.
An oak had screened us from the heat;
And 'neath it in the standing wheat,
A cradle and a fair retreat,
  Full sweetly slept the little one.

The workman rested from his stroke,
And manly were the words he spoke,
Until the smiling babe awoke
  And prayed to him for milk and food.
Then to a runlet forth he went,
And brought a wallet from the bent,
And bade me to the meal, intent
  I should not quit his neighborhood.

"For here," said he, "are bread and beer,
And meat enough to make good cheer;
Sir, eat with me, and have no fear,
  For none upon my work depend,
Saving this child; and I may say
That I am rich, for every day
I put by somewhat; therefore stay,
  And to such eating condescend."

We ate. The child--child fair to see--
Began to cling about his knee,
And he down leaning fatherly
  Received some softly-prattled prayer;
He smiled as if to list were balm,
And with his labor-hardened palm
Pushed from the baby-forehead calm
  Those shining locks that clustered there.

The rosy mouth made fresh essay--
"O would he sing, or would he play?"
I looked, my thought would make its way--
  "Fair is your child of face and limb,
The round blue eyes full sweetly shine."
He answered me with glance benign--
"Ay, Sir; but he is none of mine.
  Although I set great store by him."

With that, as if his heart was fain
To open--nathless not complain--
He let my quiet questions gain
  His story: "Not of kin to me,"
Repeating; "but asleep, awake,
For worse, for better, him I take,
To cherish for my dead wife's sake,
  And count him as her legacy.

"I married with the sweetest lass
That ever stepped on meadow grass;
That ever at her looking-glass
  Some pleasure took, some natural care;
That ever swept a cottage floor
And worked all day, nor e'er gave o'er
Till eve, then watched beside the door
  Till her good man should meet her there.

"But I lost all in its fresh prime;
My wife fell ill before her time--
Just as the bells began to chime
  One Sunday morn. By next day's light
Her little babe was born and dead,
And she, unconscious what she said,
With feeble hands about her spread,
  Sought it with yearnings infinite.

"With mother-longing still beguiled,
And lost in fever-fancies wild,
She piteously bemoaned her child
  That we had stolen, she said, away.
And ten sad days she sighed to me,
'I cannot rest until I see
My pretty one! I think that he
  Smiled in my face but yesterday.'

"Then she would change, and faintly try
To sing some tender lullaby;
And 'Ah!' would moan, 'if I should die,
  Who, sweetest babe, would cherish thee?'
Then weep, 'My pretty boy is grown;
With tender feet on the cold stone
He stands, for he can stand alone,
  And no one leads him motherly.'

"Then she with dying movements slow
Would seem to knit, or seem to sew:
'His feet are bare, he must not go
  Unshod:' and as her death drew on,
'O little baby,' she would sigh;
'My little child, I cannot die
Till I have you to slumber nigh--
  You, you to set mine eyes upon.'

"When she spake thus, and moaning lay,
They said, 'She cannot pass away,
So sore she longs:' and as the day
  Broke on the hills, I left her side.
Mourning along this lane I went;
Some travelling folk had pitched their tent
Up yonder: there a woman, bent
  With age, sat meanly canopied.

"A twelvemonths' child was at her side:
'Whose infant may that be?' I cried.
'His that will own him,' she replied;
  'His mother's dead, no worse could be.'
'Since you can give--or else I erred--
See, you are taken at your word,'
Quoth I; 'That child is mine; I heard,
  And own him! Rise, and give him me.'

"She rose amazed, but cursed me too;
She could not hold such luck for true,
But gave him soon, with small ado.
  I laid him by my Lucy's side:
Close to her face that baby crept,
And stroked it, and the sweet soul wept;
Then, while upon her arm he slept,
  She passed, for she was satisfied.

"I loved her well, I wept her sore,
And when her funeral left my door
I thought that I should never more
  Feel any pleasure near me glow;
But I have learned, though this I had,
'Tis sometimes natural to be glad,
And no man can be always sad
  Unless he wills to have it so.

"Oh, I had heavy nights at first,
And daily wakening was the worst:
For then my grief arose, and burst
  Like something fresh upon my head;
Yet when less keen it seemed to grow,
I was not pleased--I wished to go
Mourning adown this vale of woe,
  For all my life uncomforted.

"I grudged myself the lightsome air,
That makes man cheerful unaware;
When comfort came, I did not care
  To take it in, to feel it stir:
And yet God took with me his plan,
And now for my appointed span
I think I am a happier man
  For having wed and wept for her.

"Because no natural tie remains,
On this small thing I spend my gains;
God makes me love him for my pains,
  And binds me so to wholesome care
I would not lose from my past life
That happy year, that happy wife!
Yet now I wage no useless strife
  With feelings blithe and debonair.

"I have the courage to be gay,
Although she lieth lapped away
Under the daisies, for I say,
  'Thou wouldst be glad if thou couldst see':
My constant thought makes manifest
I have not what I love the best,
But I must thank God for the rest
  While I hold heaven a verity."

He rose, upon his shoulder set
The child, and while with vague regret
We parted, pleased that we had met,
  My heart did with herself confer;
With wholesome shame she did repent
Her reasonings idly eloquent,
And said, "I might be more content:
  But God go with the carpenter."






REFLECTIONS.

LOOKING OVER A GATE AT A POOL IN A FIELD.


What change has made the pastures sweet
And reached the daisies at my feet,
  And cloud that wears a golden hem?
This lovely world, the hills, the sward--
They all look fresh, as if our Lord
  But yesterday had finished them.

And here's the field with light aglow;
How fresh its boundary lime-trees show,
  And how its wet leaves trembling shine!
Between their trunks come through to me
The morning sparkles of the sea
  Below the level browsing line

I see the pool more clear by half
Than pools where other waters laugh
  Up at the breasts of coot and rail.
There, as she passed it on her way,
I saw reflected yesterday
  A maiden with a milking-pail.

There, neither slowly nor in haste,
One hand upon her slender waist,
  The other lifted to her pail,
She, rosy in the morning light,
Among the water-daisies white,
  Like some fair sloop appeared to sail.

Against her ankles as she trod
The lucky buttercups did nod.
  I leaned upon the gate to see:
The sweet thing looked, but did not speak;
A dimple came in either cheek,
  And all my heart was gone from me.

Then, as I lingered on the gate,
And she came up like coming fate,
  I saw my picture in her eyes--
Clear dancing eyes, more black than sloes,
Cheeks like the mountain pink, that grows
  Among white-headed majesties.

I said, "A tale was made of old
That I would fain to thee unfold;
  Ah! let me--let me tell the tale."
But high she held her comely head;
"I cannot heed it now," she said,
  "For carrying of the milking-pail."

She laughed. What good to make ado?
I held the gate, and she came through,
  And took her homeward path anon.
From the clear pool her face had fled;
It rested on my heart instead,
  Reflected when the maid was gone.

With happy youth, and work content,
So sweet and stately on she went,
  Right careless of the untold tale.
Each step she took I loved her more,
And followed to her dairy door
  The maiden with the milking-pail.


II.

For hearts where wakened love doth lurk,
How fine, how blest a thing is work!
  For work does good when reasons fail--
Good; yet the axe at every stroke
The echo of a name awoke--
  Her name is Mary Martindale.

I'm glad that echo was not heard
Aright by other men: a bird
  Knows doubtless what his own notes tell;
And I know not, but I can say
I felt as shame-faced all that day
  As if folks heard her name right well.

And when the west began to glow
I went--I could not choose but go--
  To that same dairy on the hill;
And while sweet Mary moved about
Within, I came to her without.
  And leaned upon the window-sill.

The garden border where I stood
Was sweet with pinks and southernwood.
  I spoke--her answer seemed to fail:
I smelt the pinks--I could not see;
The dusk came down and sheltered me,
  And in the dusk she heard my tale.

And what is left that I should tell?
I begged a kiss, I pleaded well:
  The rosebud lips did long decline;
But yet I think, I think 'tis true,
That, leaned at last into the dew,
  One little instant they were mine.

O life! how dear thou hast become:
She laughed at dawn and I was dumb,
  But evening counsels best prevail.
Fair shine the blue that o'er her spreads,
Green be the pastures where she treads,
  The maiden with the milking-pail!




THE LETTER L.


ABSENT.

We sat on grassy slopes that meet
  With sudden dip the level strand;
The trees hung overhead--our feet
        Were on the sand.

Two silent girls, a thoughtful man,
  We sunned ourselves in open light,
And felt such April airs as fan
        The Isle of Wight;

And smelt the wall-flower in the crag
  Whereon that dainty waft had fed,
Which made the bell-hung cowslip wag
        Her delicate head;

And let alighting jackdaws fleet
  Adown it open-winged, and pass
Till they could touch with outstretched feet
        The warmèd grass.

The happy wave ran up and rang
  Like service bells a long way off,
And down a little freshet sprang
    From mossy trough,

And splashed into a rain of spray,
  And fretted on with daylight's loss,
Because so many bluebells lay
    Leaning across.

Blue martins gossiped in the sun,
  And pairs of chattering daws flew by,
And sailing brigs rocked softly on
    In company.

Wild cherry-boughs above us spread,
  The whitest shade was ever seen,
And flicker, flicker, came and fled
    Sun spots between.

Bees murmured in the milk-white bloom,
  As babes will sigh for deep content
When their sweet hearts for peace make room,
    As given, not lent.

And we saw on: we said no word,
  And one was lost in musings rare,
One buoyant as the waft that stirred
    Her shining hair.

His eyes were bent upon the sand,
  Unfathomed deeps within them lay.
A slender rod was in his hand--
        A hazel spray.

Her eyes were resting on his face,
  As shyly glad, by stealth to glean
Impressions of his manly grace
        And guarded mien;

The mouth with steady sweetness set,
  And eyes conveying unaware
The distant hint of some regret
        That harbored there.

She gazed, and in the tender flush
  That made her face like roses blown,
And in the radiance and the hush,
        Her thought was shown.

It was a happy thing to sit
  So near, nor mar his reverie;
She looked not for a part in it,
        So meek was she.

But it was solace for her eyes,
  And for her heart, that yearned to him,
To watch apart in loving wise
        Those musings dim.

Lost--lost, and gone! The Pelham woods
  Were full of doves that cooed at ease;
The orchis filled her purple hoods
        For dainty bees.

He heard not; all the delicate air
  Was fresh with falling water-spray:
It mattered not--he was not there,
        But far away.

Till with the hazel in his hand,
  Still drowned in thought it thus befell;
He drew a letter on the sand--
        The letter L.

And looking on it, straight there wrought
  A ruddy flush about his brow;
His letter woke him: absent thought
        Rushed homeward now.

And half-abashed, his hasty touch
  Effaced it with a tell-tale care,
As if his action had been much,
        And not his air.

And she? she watched his open palm
  Smooth out the letter from the sand,
And rose, with aspect almost calm,
        And filled her hand

With cherry-bloom, and moved away
  To gather wild forget-me-not,
And let her errant footsteps stray
        To one sweet spot,

As if she coveted the fair
  White lining of the silver-weed,
And cuckoo-pint that shaded there
        Empurpled seed.

She had not feared, as I divine,
  Because she had not hoped. Alas!
The sorrow of it! for that sign
        Came but to pass;

And yet it robbed her of the right
  To give, who looked not to receive,
And made her blush in love's despite
        That she should grieve.

A shape in white, she turned to gaze;
  Her eyes were shaded with her hand,
And half-way up the winding ways
       We saw her stand.

Green hollows of the fringèd cliff,
  Red rocks that under waters show,
Blue reaches, and a sailing skiff,
        Were spread below.

She stood to gaze, perhaps to sigh,
  Perhaps to think; but who can tell
How heavy on her heart must lie
        The letter L!

 

She came anon with quiet grace;
  And "What," she murmured, "silent yet!"
He answered, "'Tis a haunted place,
        And spell-beset.

"O speak to us, and break the spell!"
  "The spell is broken," she replied.
"I crossed the running brook, it fell,
        It could not bide.

"And I have brought a budding world,
  Of orchis spires and daisies rank,
And ferny plumes but half uncurled,
        From yonder bank;

"And I shall weave of them a crown,
  And at the well-head launch it free,
That so the brook may float it down,
        And out to sea.

"There may it to some English hands
  From fairy meadow seem to come;
The fairyest of fairy lands--
        The land of home."

"Weave on," he said, and as she wove
  We told how currents in the deep,
With branches from a lemon grove,
        Blue bergs will sweep.

And messages from shipwrecked folk
  Will navigate the moon-led main,
And painted boards of splintered oak
        Their port regain.

Then floated out by vagrant thought,
  My soul beheld on torrid sand
The wasteful water set at nought
        Man's skilful hand,

And suck out gold-dust from the box,
  And wash it down in weedy whirls,
And split the wine-keg on the rocks,
        And lose the pearls.

"Ah! why to that which needs it not,"
  Methought, "should costly things be given?
How much is wasted, wrecked, forgot,
        On this side heaven!"

So musing, did mine ears awake
  To maiden tones of sweet reserve,
And manly speech that seemed to make
        The steady curve

Of lips that uttered it defer
  Their guard, and soften for the thought:
She listened, and his talk with her
        Was fancy fraught.

"There is not much in liberty"--
  With doubtful pauses he began;
And said to her and said to me,
        "There was a man--

"There was a man who dreamed one night
  That his dead father came to him;
And said, when fire was low, and light
        Was burning dim--

"'Why vagrant thus, my sometime pride,
  Unloved, unloving, wilt thou roam?
Sure home is best!' The son replied,
        'I have no home.'

"'Shall not I speak?' his father said,
  'Who early chose a youthful wife,
And worked for her, and with her led
        My happy life.

"'Ay, I will speak, for I was young
  As thou art now, when I did hold
The prattling sweetness of thy tongue
        Dearer than gold;

"'And rosy from thy noonday sleep
  Would bear thee to admiring kin,
And all thy pretty looks would keep
        My heart within.

"'Then after, mid thy young allies--
  For thee ambition flushed my brow--
I coveted the school-boy prize
        Far more than thou.

"'I thought for thee, I thought for all
  My gamesome imps that round me grew;
The dews of blessing heaviest fall
        Where care falls too.

"'And I that sent my boys away,
  In youthful strength to earn their bread,
And died before the hair was gray
        Upon my head--

"'I say to thee, though free from care,
  A lonely lot, an aimless life,
The crowning comfort is not there--
        Son, take a wife.'

"'Father beloved,' the son replied,
  And failed to gather to his breast,
With arms in darkness searching wide,
        The formless guest.

"'I am but free, as sorrow is,
  To dry her tears, to laugh, to talk;
And free, as sick men are, I wis
        To rise and walk.

"'And free, as poor men are, to buy
  If they have nought wherewith to pay;
Nor hope, the debt before they die,
        To wipe away.

"'What 'vails it there are wives to win,
  And faithful hearts for those to yearn,
Who find not aught thereto akin
        To make return?

"'Shall he take much who little gives,
  And dwells in spirit far away,
When she that in his presence lives
        Doth never stray,

"But waking, guideth as beseems
  The happy house in order trim,
And tends her babes; and sleeping, dreams
      Of them and him?

"'O base, O cold,'"--while thus he spake
  The dream broke off, the vision fled;
He carried on his speech awake
        And sighing said--

"'I had--ah happy man!--I had
  A precious jewel in my breast,
And while I kept it I was glad
        At work, at rest!

"'Call it a heart, and call it strong
  As upward stroke of eagle's wing;
Then call it weak, you shall not wrong
        The beating thing.

"'In tangles of the jungle reed,
  Whose heats are lit with tiger eyes,
In shipwreck drifting with the weed
        'Neath rainy skies,

"'Still youthful manhood, fresh and keen,
  At danger gazed with awed delight
As if sea would not drown, I ween,
        Nor serpent bite.

"'I had--ah happy! but 'tis gone,
  The priceless jewel; one came by,
And saw and stood awhile to con
        With curious eye,

"'And wished for it, and faintly smiled
  From under lashes black as doom,
With subtle sweetness, tender, mild,
        That did illume

"'The perfect face, and shed on it
  A charm, half feeling, half surprise,
And brim with dreams the exquisite
        Brown blessèd eyes.

"'Was it for this, no more but this,
  I took and laid it in her hand,
By dimples ruled, to hint submiss,
        By frown unmanned?

"'It was for this--and O farewell
  The fearless foot, the present mind,
And steady will to breast the swell
        And face the wind!

"'I gave the jewel from my breast,
  She played with it a little while
As I sailed down into the west,
        Fed by her smile;

"'Then weary of it--far from land,
  With sigh as deep as destiny,
She let it drop from her fair hand
        Into the sea,

"'And watched it sink; and I--and I,--
  What shall I do, for all is vain?
No wave will bring, no gold will buy,
        No toil attain;

"'Nor any diver reach to raise
  My jewel from the blue abyss;
Or could they, still I should but praise
        Their work amiss.

"'Thrown, thrown away! But I love yet
  The fair, fair hand which did the deed:
That wayward sweetness to forget
        Were bitter meed.

"'No, let it lie, and let the wave
  Roll over it for evermore;
Whelmed where the sailor hath his grave--
        The sea her store.

"'My heart, my sometime happy heart!
  And O for once let me complain,
I must forego life's better part--
        Man's dearer gain.

"'I worked afar that I might rear
  A peaceful home on English soil;
I labored for the gold and gear--
        I loved my toil.

"'Forever in my spirit spake
  The natural whisper, "Well 'twill be
When loving wife and children break
        Their bread with thee!"

"'The gathered gold is turned to dross,
  The wife hath faded into air,
My heart is thrown away, my loss
        I cannot spare.

"'Not spare unsated thought her food--
  No, not one rustle of the fold,
Nor scent of eastern sandal-wood,
        Nor gleam of gold;

"'Nor quaint devices of the shawl,
  Far less the drooping lashes meek;
The gracious figure, lithe and tall,
        The dimpled cheek;

"'And all the wonders of her eyes,
  And sweet caprices of her air,
Albeit, indignant reason cries,
        Fool! have a care.

"'Fool! join not madness to mistake;
  Thou knowest she loved thee not a whit;
Only that she thy heart might break--
        She wanted it,

"'Only the conquered thing to chain
  So fast that none might set it free,
Nor other woman there might reign
        And comfort thee.

"'Robbed, robbed of life's illusions sweet;
  Love dead outside her closèd door,
And passion fainting at her feet
        To wake no more;

"'What canst thou give that unknown bride
  Whom thou didst work for in the waste,
Ere fated love was born, and cried--
        Was dead, ungraced?

"'No more but this, the partial care,
  The natural kindness for its own,
The trust that waxeth unaware,
        As worth is known:

"'Observance, and complacent thought
  Indulgent, and the honor due
That many another man has brought
        Who brought love too.

"'Nay, then, forbid it Heaven!' he said,
  'The saintly vision fades from me;
O bands and chains! I cannot wed--
        I am not free.'"

With that he raised his face to view;
  "What think you," asking, "of my tale?
And was he right to let the dew
        Of morn exhale,

"And burdened in the noontide sun,
  The grateful shade of home forego--
Could he be right--I ask as one
        Who fain would know?"

He spoke to her and spoke to me;
  The rebel rose-hue dyed her cheek;
The woven crown lay on her knee;
        She would not speak.

And I with doubtful pause--averse
  To let occasion drift away--
I answered--"If his case were worse
        Than word can say,

"Time is a healer of sick hearts,
  And women have been known to choose,
With purpose to allay their smarts,
        And tend their bruise,

"These for themselves. Content to give,
  In their own lavish love complete,
Taking for sole prerogative
        Their tendance sweet.

"Such meeting in their diadem
  Of crowning love's ethereal fire,
Himself he robs who robbeth them
        Of their desire.

"Therefore the man who, dreaming, cried
  Against his lot that even-song,
I judge him honest, and decide
        That he was wrong."

"When I am judged, ah may my fate,"
  He whispered, "in thy code be read!
Be thou both judge and advocate."
        Then turned, he said--

"Fair weaver!" touching, while he spoke,
  The woven crown, the weaving hand,
"And do you this decree revoke,
        Or may it stand?

"This friend, you ever think her right--
  She is not wrong, then?" Soft and low
The little trembling word took flight:
        She answered, "No."


PRESENT.

A meadow where the grass was deep,
  Rich, square, and golden to the view,
A belt of elms with level sweep
        About it grew.

The sun beat down on it, the line
  Of shade was clear beneath the trees;
There, by a clustering eglantine,
        We sat at ease.

And O the buttercups! that field
  O' the cloth of gold, where pennons swam--
Where France set up his lilied shield,
        His oriflamb,

And Henry's lion-standard rolled:
  What was it to their matchless sheen,
Their million million drops of gold
        Among the green!

We sat at ease in peaceful trust,
  For he had written, "Let us meet;
My wife grew tired of smoke and dust,
        And London heat,

"And I have found a quiet grange,
  Set back in meadows sloping west,
And there our little ones can range
    And she can rest.

"Come down, that we may show the view,
  And she may hear your voice again,
And talk her woman's talk with you
    Along the lane."

Since he had drawn with listless hand
  The letter, six long years had fled,
And winds had blown about the sand,
    And they were wed.

Two rosy urchins near him played,
  Or watched, entranced, the shapely ships
That with his knife for them he made
    Of elder slips.

And where the flowers were thickest shed,
  Each blossom like a burnished gem,
A creeping baby reared its head,
    And cooed at them.

And calm was on the father's face,
  And love was in the mother's eyes;
She looked and listened from her place,
    In tender wise.

She did not need to raise her voice
  That they might hear, she sat so nigh;
Yet we could speak when 'twas our choice,
        And soft reply.

Holding our quiet talk apart
  Of household things; till, all unsealed,
The guarded outworks of the heart
        Began to yield;

And much that prudence will not dip
  The pen to fix and send away,
Passed safely over from the lip
        That summer day.

"I should be happy," with a look
  Towards her husband where he lay,
Lost in the pages of his book,
        Soft did she say.

"I am, and yet no lot below
  For one whole day eludeth care;
To marriage all the stories flow,
        And finish there:

"As if with marriage came the end,
  The entrance into settled rest,
The calm to which love's tossings tend,
        The quiet breast.

"For me love played the low preludes,
  Yet life began but with the ring,
Such infinite solicitudes
        Around it cling.

"I did not for my heart divine
  Her destiny so meek to grow;
The higher nature matched with mine
        Will have it so.

"Still I consider it, and still
  Acknowledge it my master made,
Above me by the steadier will
        Of nought afraid.

"Above me by the candid speech;
  The temperate judgment of its own;
The keener thoughts that grasp and reach
        At things unknown.

"But I look up and he looks down,
  And thus our married eyes can meet;
Unclouded his, and clear of frown,
        And gravely sweet.

"And yet, O good, O wise and true!
  I would for all my fealty,
That I could be as much to you
        As you to me;

"And knew the deep secure content
  Of wives who have been hardly won,
And, long petitioned, gave assent,
        Jealous of none.

"But proudly sure in all the earth
  No other in that homage shares,
Nor other woman's face or worth
        Is prized as theirs."

I said: "And yet no lot below
  For one whole day eludeth care.
Your thought." She answered, "Even so.
        I would beware

"Regretful questionings; be sure
  That very seldom do they rise,
Nor for myself do I endure--
        I sympathize.

"For once"--she turned away her head,
  Across the grass she swept her hand--
"There was a letter once," she said,
        "Upon the sand."

"There was, in truth, a letter writ
  On sand," I said, "and swept from view;
But that same hand which fashioned it
        Is given to you.

"Efface the letter; wherefore keep
  An image which the sands forego?"
"Albeit that fear had seemed to sleep,"
        She answered low,

"I could not choose but wake it now;
  For do but turn aside your face,
A house on yonder hilly brow
        Your eyes may trace.

"The chestnut shelters it; ah me,
  That I should have so faint a heart!
But yester-eve, as by the sea
        I sat apart,

"I heard a name, I saw a hand
  Of passing stranger point that way--
And will he meet her on the strand,
        When late we stray?

"For she is come, for she is there,
  I heard it in the dusk, and heard
Admiring words, that named her fair,
        But little stirred

"By beauty of the wood and wave,
  And weary of an old man's sway;
For it was sweeter to enslave
        Than to obey."

--The voice of one that near us stood,
  The rustle of a silken fold,
A scent of eastern sandal wood,
        A gleam of gold!

A lady! In the narrow space
  Between the husband and the wife,
But nearest him--she showed a face
        With dangers rife;

A subtle smile that dimpling fled,
  As night-black lashes rose and fell:
I looked, and to myself I said,
        "The letter L."

He, too, looked up, and with arrest
  Of breath and motion held his gaze,
Nor cared to hide within his breast
        His deep amaze;

Nor spoke till on her near advance
  His dark cheek flushed a ruddier hue;
And with his change of countenance
        Hers altered too.

"Lenore!" his voice was like the cry
  Of one entreating; and he said
But that--then paused with such a sigh
        As mourns the dead.

And seated near, with no demur
  Of bashful doubt she silence broke,
Though I alone could answer her
        When first she spoke.

She looked: her eyes were beauty's own;
  She shed their sweetness into his;
Nor spared the married wife one moan
        That bitterest is.

She spoke, and lo, her loveliness
  Methought she damaged with her tongue;
And every sentence made it less,
        All falsely rung.

The rallying voice, the light demand,
  Half flippant, half unsatisfied;
The vanity sincere and bland--
        The answers wide.

And now her talk was of the East,
  And next her talk was of the sea;
"And has the love for it increased
        You shared with me?"

He answered not, but grave and still
  With earnest eyes her face perused,
And locked his lips with steady will,
        As one that mused--

That mused and wondered. Why his gaze
  Should dwell on her, methought, was plain;
But reason that should wonder raise
        I sought in vain.

And near and near the children drew,
  Attracted by her rich array,
And gems that trembling into view
        Like raindrops lay.

He spoke: the wife her baby took
  And pressed the little face to hers;
What pain soe'er her bosom shook,
        What jealous stirs

Might stab her heart, she hid them so,
  The cooing babe a veil supplied;
And if she listened none might know,
        Or if she sighed;

Or if forecasting grief and care
  Unconscious solace thence she drew,
And lulled her babe, and unaware
        Lulled sorrow too.

The lady, she interpreter
  For looks or language wanted none,
If yet dominion stayed with her--
        So lightly won;

If yet the heart she wounded sore
  Could yearn to her, and let her see
The homage that was evermore
        Disloyalty;

If sign would yield that it had bled,
  Or rallied from the faithless blow,
Or sick or sullen stooped to wed,
        She craved to know.

Now dreamy deep, now sweetly keen,
  Her asking eyes would round him shine;
But guarded lips and settled mien
        Refused the sign.

And unbeguiled and unbetrayed,
  The wonder yet within his breast,
It seemed a watchful part he played
        Against her quest.

Until with accent of regret
  She touched upon the past once more,
As if she dared him to forget
        His dream of yore.

And words of little weight let fall
  The fancy of the lower mind;
How waxing life must needs leave all
        Its best behind;

How he had said that "he would fain
  (One morning on the halcyon sea)
That life would at a stand remain
        Eternally;

"And sails be mirrored in the deep,
  As then they were, for evermore,
And happy spirits wake and sleep
        Afar from shore:

"The well-contented heart be fed
  Ever as then, and all the world
(It were not small) unshadowèd
        When sails were furled.

"Your words"--a pause, and quietly
  With touch of calm self-ridicule:
"It may be so--for then," said he,
        "I was a fool."

With that he took his book, and left
  An awkward silence to my care,
That soon I filled with questions deft
        And debonair;

And slid into an easy vein,
  The favorite picture of the year;
The grouse upon her lord's domain--
        The salmon weir;

Till she could fain a sudden thought
  Upon neglected guests, and rise,
And make us her adieux, with nought
        In her dark eyes

Acknowledging or shame or pain;
  But just unveiling for our view
A little smile of still disdain
        As she withdrew.

Then nearer did the sunshine creep,
  And warmer came the wafting breeze;
The little babe was fast asleep
        On mother's knees.

Fair was the face that o'er it leant,
  The cheeks with beauteous blushes dyed;
The downcast lashes, shyly bent,
        That failed to hide

Some tender shame. She did not see;
  She felt his eyes that would not stir,
She looked upon her babe, and he
        So looked at her.

So grave, so wondering, so content,
  As one new waked to conscious life,
Whose sudden joy with fear is blent,
        He said, "My wife."

"My wife, how beautiful you are!"
  Then closer at her side reclined,
"The bold brown woman from afar
        Comes, to me blind.

"And by comparison, I see
  The majesty of matron grace,
And learn how pure, how fair can be
        My own wife's face:

"Pure with all faithful passion, fair
  With tender smiles that come and go,
And comforting as April air
        After the snow.

"Fool that I was! my spirit frets
  And marvels at the humbling truth,
That I have deigned to spend regrets
        On my bruised youth.

"Its idol mocked thee, seated nigh,
  And shamed me for the mad mistake;
I thank my God he could deny,
        And she forsake.

"Ah, who am I, that God hath saved
  Me from the doom I did desire,
And crossed the lot myself had craved,
        To set me higher?

"What have I done that He should bow
  From heaven to choose a wife for me?
And what deserved, He should endow
        My home with THEE?

"My wife!" With that she turned her face
  To kiss the hand about her neck;
And I went down and sought the place
        Where leaped the beck--

The busy beck, that still would run
  And fall, and falter its refrain;
And pause and shimmer in the sun,
        And fall again.

It led me to the sandy shore,
  We sang together, it and I--
"The daylight comes, the dark is o'er,
        The shadows fly."

I lost it on the sandy shore,
  "O wife!" its latest murmurs fell,
"O wife, be glad, and fear no more
        The letter L."






AFTERNOON AT A PARSONAGE.



What wonder man should fail to stay
  A nursling wafted from above,
The growth celestial come astray,
  That tender growth whose name is Love!

It is as if high winds in heaven
  Had shaken the celestial trees,
And to this earth below had given
  Some feathered seeds from one of these.

O perfect love that 'dureth long!
  Dear growth, that shaded by the palms.
And breathed on by the angel's song,
  Blooms on in heaven's eternal calms!

How great the task to guard thee here,
  Where wind is rough and frost is keen,
And all the ground with doubt and fear
  Is checkered, birth and death between!

Space is against thee--it can part;
  Time is against thee--it can chill;
Words--they but render half the heart;
  Deeds--they are poor to our rich will.

 



When the dimpled water slippeth,
  Full of laughter, on its way,
And her wing the wagtail dippeth,
  Running by the brink at play;
When the poplar leaves atremble
  Turn their edges to the light,
And the far-up clouds resemble
  Veils of gauze most clear and white;
And the sunbeams fall and flatter
  Woodland moss and branches brown.
And the glossy finches chatter
  Up and down, up and down:
Though the heart be not attending,
  Having music of her own,
On the grass, through meadows wending,
  It is sweet to walk alone.

When the falling waters utter
  Something mournful on their way,
And departing swallows flutter,
  Taking leave of bank and brae;
When the chaffinch idly sitteth
  With her mate upon the sheaves,
And the wistful robin flitteth
  Over beds of yellow leaves;
When the clouds, like ghosts that ponder
  Evil fate, float by and frown,
And the listless wind doth wander
  Up and down, up and down:
Though the heart be not attending,
  Having sorrows of her own,
Through the fields and fallows wending,
  It is sad to walk alone.

_Merton_. Blind! blind! blind!
Oh! sitting in the dark for evermore,
And doing nothing--putting out a hand
To feel what lies about me, and to say
Not "This is blue or red," but "This is cold,
And this the sun is shining on, and this
I know not till they tell its name to me."

O that I might behold once more my God!
The shining rulers of the night and day;
Or a star twinkling; or an almond-tree,
Pink with her blossom and alive with bees,
Standing against the azure! O my sight!
Lost, and yet living in the sunlit cells
Of memory--that only lightsome place
Where lingers yet the dayspring of my youth:
The years of mourning for thy death are long.

Be kind, sweet memory! O desert me not!
For oft thou show'st me lucent opal seas,
Fringed with their cocoa-palms and dwarf red crags,
Whereon the placid moon doth "rest her chin",
For oft by favor of thy visitings
I feel the dimness of an Indian night,
And lo! the sun is coming. Red as rust
Between the latticed blind his presence burns,
A ruby ladder running up the wall;
And all the dust, printed with pigeons' feet,
Is reddened, and the crows that stalk anear
Begin to trail for heat their glossy wings,
And the red flowers give back at once the dew,
For night is gone, and day is born so fast,
And is so strong, that, huddled as in flight,
The fleeting darkness paleth to a shade,
And while she calls to sleep and dreams "Come on,"
Suddenly waked, the sleepers rub their eyes,
Which having opened, lo! she is no more.

O misery and mourning! I have felt--
Yes, I have felt like some deserted world
That God had done with, and had cast aside
To rock and stagger through the gulfs of space,
He never looking on it any more--
Untilled, no use, no pleasure, not desired,
Nor lighted on by angels in their flight
From heaven to happier planets, and the race
That once had dwelt on it withdrawn or dead
Could such a world have hope that some blest day
God would remember her, and fashion her
Anew?





SONGS OF SEVEN.


SEVEN TIMES ONE. EXULTATION.

There's no dew left on the daisies and clover,
  There's no rain left in heaven:
I've said my "seven times" over and over,
  Seven times one are seven.

I am old, so old, I can write a letter;
  My birthday lessons are done;
The lambs play always, they know no better;
  They are only one times one.

O moon! in the night I have seen you sailing
  And shining so round and low;
You were bright! ah bright! but your light is failing--
  You are nothing now but a bow.

You moon, have you done something wrong in heaven
  That God has hidden your face?
I hope if you have you will soon be forgiven,
  And shine again in your place.

O velvet bee, you're a dusty fellow,
  You've powdered your legs with gold!
O brave marsh marybuds, rich and yellow,
  Give me your money to hold!

O columbine, open your folded wrapper,
  Where two twin turtle-doves dwell!
O cuckoo pint, toll me the purple clapper
  That hangs in your clear green bell!

And show me your nest with the young ones in it;
  I will not steal them away;
I am old! you may trust me, linnet, linnet--
  I am seven times one to-day.


SEVEN TIMES TWO. ROMANCE.

You bells in the steeple, ring, ring out your changes,
  How many soever they be,
And let the brown meadow-lark's note as he ranges
  Come over, come over to me.

Yet bird's clearest carol by fall or by swelling
  No magical sense conveys,
And bells have forgotten their old art of telling
  The fortune of future days.

"Turn again, turn again," once they rang cheerily,
  While a boy listened alone;
Made his heart yearn again, musing so wearily
  All by himself on a stone.

Poor bells! I forgive you; your good days are over,
  And mine, they are yet to be;
No listening, no longing shall aught, aught discover:
  You leave the story to me.

The foxglove shoots out of the green matted heather,
  And hangeth her hoods of snow;
She was idle, and slept till the sunshiny weather:
  O, children take long to grow.

I wish, and I wish that the spring would go faster,
  Nor long summer bide so late;
And I could grow on like the foxglove and aster,
  For some things are ill to wait.

I wait for the day when dear hearts shall discover,
  While dear hands are laid on my head;
"The child is a woman, the book may close over,
  For all the lessons are said."

I wait for my story--the birds cannot sing it,
  Not one, as he sits on the tree;
The bells cannot ring it, but long years, O bring it!
  Such as I wish it to be.


SEVEN TIMES THREE. LOVE.

I leaned out of window, I smelt the white clover,
  Dark, dark was the garden, I saw not the gate;
"Now, if there be footsteps, he comes, my one lover--
  Hush, nightingale, hush! O, sweet nightingale, wait
    Till I listen and hear
    If a step draweth near,
    For my love he is late!

"The skies in the darkness stoop nearer and nearer,
  A cluster of stars hangs like fruit in the tree,
The fall of the water comes sweeter, comes clearer:
  To what art thou listening, and what dost thou see?
    Let the star-clusters glow,
    Let the sweet waters flow,
    And cross quickly to me.

"You night-moths that hover where honey brims over
  From sycamore blossoms, or settle or sleep;
You glowworms, shine out, and the pathway discover
  To him that comes darkling along the rough steep.
    Ah, my sailor, make haste,
    For the time runs to waste,
    And my love lieth deep--

"Too deep for swift telling: and yet my one lover
  I've conned thee an answer, it waits thee to-night."

By the sycamore passed he, and through the white clover,
  Then all the sweet speech I had fashioned took flight:
    But I'll love him more, more
    Than e'er wife loved before,
    Be the days dark or bright.


SEVEN TIMES FOUR. MATERNITY.

Heigh ho! daisies and buttercups,
  Fair yellow daffodils, stately and tall!
When the wind wakes how they rock in the grasses,
  And dance with the cuckoo-buds slender and small!
Here's two bonny boys, and here's mother's own lasses,
    Eager to gather them all.

Heigh ho! daisies and buttercups!
  Mother shall thread them a daisy chain;
Sing them a song of the pretty hedge-sparrow,
  That loved her brown little ones, loved them full fain;
Sing, "Heart, thou art wide though the house be but narrow"--
    Sing once, and sing it again.

Heigh ho! daisies and buttercups,
  Sweet wagging cowslips, they bend and they bow;
A ship sails afar over warm ocean waters,
  And haply one musing doth stand at her prow.
O bonny brown sons, and O sweet little daughters,
    Maybe he thinks on you now!

Heigh ho! daisies and buttercups,
  Fair yellow daffodils, stately and tall--
A sunshiny world full of laughter and leisure,
  And fresh hearts unconscious of sorrow and thrall!
Send down on their pleasure smiles passing its measure,
    God that is over us all!


SEVEN TIMES FIVE. WIDOWHOOD.

I sleep and rest, my heart makes moan
  Before I am well awake;
"Let me bleed! O let me alone,
  Since I must not break!"

For children wake, though fathers sleep
  With a stone at foot and at head:
O sleepless God, forever keep,
  Keep both living and dead!

I lift mine eyes, and what to see
  But a world happy and fair!
I have not wished it to mourn with me--
  Comfort is not there.

O what anear but golden brooms,
  And a waste of reedy rills!
O what afar but the fine glooms
  On the rare blue hills!

I shall not die, but live forlore--
  How bitter it is to part!
O to meet thee, my love, once more!
  O my heart, my heart!

No more to hear, no more to see!
  O that an echo might wake
And waft one note of thy psalm to me
  Ere my heart-strings break!

I should know it how faint soe'er,
  And with angel voices blent;
O once to feel thy spirit anear,
  I could be content!

Or once between the gates of gold,
  While an angel entering trod,
But once--thee sitting to behold
  On the hills of God!


SEVEN TIMES SIX. GIVING IN MARRIAGE.

To bear, to nurse, to rear,
  To watch, and then to lose:
To see my bright ones disappear,
  Drawn up like morning dews--
To bear, to nurse, to rear,
  To watch, and then to lose:
This have I done when God drew near
  Among his own to choose.

To hear, to heed, to wed,
  And with thy lord depart
In tears that he, as soon as shed,
  Will let no longer smart.--
To hear, to heed, to wed,
  This while thou didst I smiled,
For now it was not God who said,
"Mother, give ME thy child."

O fond, O fool, and blind,
  To God I gave with tears;
But when a man like grace would find,
  My soul put by her fears--
O fond, O fool, and blind,
  God guards in happier spheres;
That man will guard where he did bind
  Is hope for unknown years.

To hear, to heed, to wed,
  Fair lot that maidens choose,
Thy mother's tenderest words are said,
  Thy face no more she views;
Thy mother's lot, my dear,
  She doth in nought accuse;
Her lot to bear, to nurse, to rear,
  To love--and then to lose.


SEVEN TIMES SEVEN. LONGING FOR HOME.

I.

        A song of a boat:--
    There was once a boat on a billow:
  Lightly she rocked to her port remote,
And the foam was white in her wake like snow,
And her frail mast bowed when the breeze would blow
    And bent like a wand of willow.

II.

  I shaded mine eyes one day when a boat
    Went curtseying over the billow,
  I marked her course till a dancing mote
She faded out on the moonlit foam,
And I stayed behind in the dear loved home;
  And my thoughts all day were about the boat,
    And my dreams upon the pillow.

III.

I pray you hear my song of a boat,
    For it is but short:--
My boat, you shall find none fairer afloat,
    In river or port.
Long I looked out for the lad she bore,
  On the open desolate sea,
And I think he sailed to the heavenly shore,
  For he came not back to me--
                                  Ah me!

IV.

        A song of a nest:--
    There was once a nest in a hollow:
Down in the mosses and knot-grass pressed,
  Soft and warm, and full to the brim--
  Vetches leaned over it purple and dim,
    With buttercup buds to follow.

V.

I pray you hear my song of a nest,
    For it is not long:--
You shall never light, in a summer quest
    The bushes among--
Shall never light on a prouder sitter,
  A fairer nestful, nor ever know
A softer sound than their tender twitter
  That wind-like did come and go.

VI.

  I had a nestful once of my own,
    Ah happy, happy I!
Right dearly I loved them: but when they were grown
    They spread out their wings to fly--
  O, one after one they flew away
    Far up to the heavenly blue,
  To the better country, the upper day,
    And--I wish I was going too.

VII.

I pray you, what is the nest to me,
    My empty nest?
And what is the shore where I stood to see
    My boat sail down to the west?
Can I call that home where I anchor yet,
    Though my good man has sailed?
Can I call that home where my nest was set,
    Now all its hope hath failed?
Nay, but the port where my sailor went,
    And the land where my nestlings be:
There is the home where my thoughts are sent,
    The only home for me--
                           Ah me!




A COTTAGE IN A CHINE.


We reached the place by night,
  And heard the waves breaking:
They came to meet us with candles alight
  To show the path we were taking.
A myrtle, trained on the gate, was white
  With tufted flowers down shaking.

With head beneath her wing,
  A little wren was sleeping--
So near, I had found it an easy thing
  To steal her for my keeping
From the myrtle-bough that with easy swing
  Across the path was sweeping.

Down rocky steps rough-hewed,
  Where cup-mosses flowered,
And under the trees, all twisted and rude,
  Wherewith the dell was dowered,
They led us, where deep in its solitude
  Lay the cottage, leaf-embowered.

The thatch was all bespread
  With climbing passion-flowers;
They were wet, and glistened with raindrops, shed
  That day in genial showers.
"Was never a sweeter nest," we said,
  "Than this little nest of ours."

We laid us down to sleep:
  But as for me--waking,
I marked the plunge of the muffled deep
  On its sandy reaches breaking;
For heart-joyance doth sometimes keep
  From slumber, like heart-aching.

And I was glad that night,
  With no reason ready,
To give my own heart for its deep delight,
  That flowed like some tidal eddy,
Or shone like a star that was rising bright
  With comforting radiance steady.

But on a sudden--hark!
  Music struck asunder
Those meshes of bliss, and I wept in the dark,
  So sweet was the unseen wonder;
So swiftly it touched, as if struck at a mark,
  The trouble that joy kept under.

I rose--the moon outshone:
  I saw the sea heaving,
And a little vessel sailing alone,
  The small crisp wavelet cleaving;
'Twas she as she sailed to her port unknown--
  Was that track of sweetness leaving.

We know they music made
  In heaven, ere man's creation;
But when God threw it down to us that strayed
  It dropt with lamentation,
And ever since doth its sweetness shade
  With sighs for its first station.

Its joy suggests regret--
  Its most for more is yearning;
And it brings to the soul that its voice hath met,
  No rest that cadence learning,
But a conscious part in the sighs that fret
  Its nature for returning.

O Eve, sweet Eve! methought
  When sometimes comfort winning,
As she watched the first children's tender sport,
  Sole joy born since her sinning,
If a bird anear them sang, it brought
  The pang as at beginning.

While swam the unshed tear,
  Her prattlers little heeding,
Would murmur, "This bird, with its carol clear.
  When the red clay was kneaden,
And God made Adam our father dear,
  Sang to him thus in Eden."

The moon went in--the sky
  And earth and sea hiding,
I laid me down, with the yearning sigh
  Of that strain in my heart abiding;
I slept, and the barque that had sailed so nigh
  In my dream was ever gliding.

I slept, but waked amazed,
  With sudden noise frighted,
And voices without, and a flash that dazed
  My eyes from candles lighted.
"Ah! surely," methought, "by these shouts upraised
  Some travellers are benighted."

A voice was at my side--
  "Waken, madam, waken!
The long prayed-for ship at her anchor doth ride.
  Let the child from its rest be taken,
For the captain doth weary for babe and for bride--
  Waken, madam, waken!

"The home you left but late,
  He speeds to it light-hearted;
By the wires he sent this news, and straight
  To you with it they started."
O joy for a yearning heart too great,
  O union for the parted!

We rose up in the night,
  The morning star was shining;
We carried the child in its slumber light
  Out by the myrtles twining:
Orion over the sea hung bright,
  And glorious in declining.

Mother, to meet her son,
  Smiled first, then wept the rather;
And wife, to bind up those links undone,
  And cherished words to gather,
And to show the face of her little one,
  That had never seen its father.

That cottage in a chine
  We were not to behold it;
But there may the purest of sunbeams shine,
  May freshest flowers enfold it,
For sake of the news which our hearts must twine
  With the bower where we were told it!

Now oft, left lone again,
  Sit mother and sit daughter,
And bless the good ship that sailed over the main,
  And the favoring winds that brought her;
While still some new beauty they fable and feign
  For the cottage by the water.






A SEA SONG.


Old Albion sat on a crag of late.
  And sang out--"Ahoy! ahoy!
Long, life to the captain, good luck to the mate.
And this to my sailor boy!
      Come over, come home,
      Through the salt sea foam,
      My sailor, my sailor boy.

"Here's a crown to be given away, I ween,
  A crown for my sailor's head,
And all for the worth of a widowed queen,
  And the love of the noble dead;
      And the fear and fame
      Of the island's name
    Where my boy was born and bred.

"Content thee, content thee, let it alone,
  Thou marked for a choice so rare;
Though treaties be treaties, never a throne
  Was proffered for cause as fair.
      Yet come to me home,
      Through the salt sea foam,
      For the Greek must ask elsewhere.

"'Tis a pity, my sailor, but who can tell?
  Many lands they look to me;
One of these might be wanting a Prince as well,
  But that's as hereafter may be."
      She raised her white head
      And laughed; and she said
      "That's as hereafter may be."







A WEDDING SONG.


Come up the broad river, the Thames, my Dane,
    My Dane with the beautiful eyes!
Thousands and thousands await thee full fain,
    And talk of the wind and the skies.
Fear not from folk and from country to part,
    O, I swear it is wisely done:
For (I said) I will bear me by thee, sweetheart,
    As becometh my father's son.

Great London was shouting as I went down.
    "She is worthy," I said, "of this;
What shall I give who have promised a crown?
    O, first I will give her a kiss."
So I kissed her and brought her, my Dane, my Dane,
    Through the waving wonderful crowd:
Thousands and thousands, they shouted amain,
    Like mighty thunders and loud.

And they said, "He is young, the lad we love,
    The heir of the Isles is young:
How we deem of his mother, and one gone above,
    Can neither be said nor sung.

"He brings us a pledge--he will do his part
    With the best of his race and name;"--
And I will, for I look to live, sweetheart,
    As may suit with my mother's fame.




THE FOUR BRIDGES.


I love this gray old church, the low, long nave,
    The ivied chancel and the slender spire;
No less its shadow on each heaving grave,
    With growing osier bound, or living brier;
I love those yew-tree trunks, where stand arrayed
So many deep-cut names of youth and maid.

A simple custom this--I love it well--
    A carved betrothal and a pledge of truth;
How many an eve, their linkèd names to spell,
    Beneath the yew-trees sat our village youth!
When work was over, and the new-cut hay
Sent wafts of balm from meadows where it lay.

Ah! many an eve, while I was yet a boy,
    Some village hind has beckoned me aside,
And sought mine aid, with shy and awkward joy,
    To carve the letters of his rustic bride,
And make them clear to read as graven stone,
Deep in the yew-tree's trunk beside his own.

For none could carve like me, and here they stand.
    Fathers and mothers of this present race:
And underscored by some less practised hand,
    That fain the story of its line would trace,
With children's names, and number, and the day
When any called to God have passed away.

I look upon them, and I turn aside,
    As oft when carving them I did erewhile;
And there I see those wooden bridges wide
    That cross the marshy hollow; there the stile
In reeds embedded, and the swelling down,
And the white road towards the distant town.

But those old bridges claim another look.
    Our brattling river tumbles through the one;
The second spans a shallow, weedy brook;
    Beneath the others, and beneath the sun,
Lie two long stilly pools, and on their breasts
Picture their wooden piles, encased in swallows' nests.

And round about them grows a fringe of reeds,
    And then a floating crown of lily-flowers,
And yet within small silver-budded weeds;
    But each clear centre evermore embowers
A deeper sky, where, stooping, you may see
The little minnows darting restlessly.

My heart is bitter, lilies, at your sweet;
    Why did the dewdrop fringe your chalices?
Why in your beauty are you thus complete,
    You silver ships--you floating palaces?
O! if need be, you must allure man's eye,
    Yet wherefore blossom here? O why? O why?

O! O! the world is wide, you lily flowers,
    It hath warm forests, cleft by stilly pools,
Where every night bathe crowds of stars; and bowers
    Of spicery hang over. Sweet air cools
And shakes the lilies among those stars that lie:
Why are not ye content to reign there? Why?

That chain of bridges, it were hard to tell
    How it is linked with all my early joy.
There was a little foot that I loved well,
    It danced across them when I was a boy;
There was a careless voice that used to sing;
There was a child, a sweet and happy thing.

Oft through that matted wood of oak and birch
    She came from yonder house upon the hill;
She crossed the wooden bridges to the church,
    And watched, with village girls, my boasted skill:
But loved to watch the floating lilies best,
Or linger, peering in a swallow's nest;

Linger and linger, with her wistful eyes
    Drawn to the lily-buds that lay so white
And soft on crimson water; for the skies
    Would crimson, and the little cloudlets bright
Would all be flung among the flowers sheer down,
To flush the spaces of their clustering crown.

Till the green rushes--O, so glossy green--
    The rushes, they would whisper, rustle, shake;
And forth on floating gauze, no jewelled queen
    So rich, the green-eyed dragon-flies would break,
And hover on the flowers--aërial things,
With little rainbows flickering on their wings.

Ah! my heart dear! the polished pools lie still,
    Like lanes of water reddened by the west,
Till, swooping down from yon o'erhanging hill,
    The bold marsh harrier wets her tawny breast;
We scared her oft in childhood from her prey,
And the old eager thoughts rise fresh as yesterday.

To yonder copse by moonlight I did go,
    In luxury of mischief, half afraid,
To steal the great owl's brood, her downy snow,
    Her screaming imps to seize, the while she preyed
With yellow, cruel eyes, whose radiant glare,
Fell with their mother rage, I might not dare.

Panting I lay till her great fanning wings
    Troubled the dreams of rock-doves, slumbering nigh,
And she and her fierce mate, like evil things,
    Skimmed the dusk fields; then rising, with a cry
Of fear, joy, triumph, darted on my prey.
    And tore it from the nest and fled away.

But afterward, belated in the wood,
  I saw her moping on the rifled tree,
And my heart smote me for her, while I stood
  Awakened from my careless reverie;
So white she looked, with moonlight round her shed.
So motherlike she drooped and hung her head.

O that mine eyes would cheat me! I behold
  The godwits running by the water edge,
Tim mossy bridges mirrored as of old;
  The little curlews creeping from the sedge,
But not the little foot so gayly light
O that mine eyes would cheat me, that I might!--

Would cheat me! I behold the gable ends--
  Those purple pigeons clustering on the cote;
The lane with maples overhung, that bends
  Toward her dwelling; the dry grassy moat,
Thick mullions, diamond-latticed, mossed and gray,
And walls bunked up with laurel and with bay.

And up behind them yellow fields of corn,
  And still ascending countless firry spires,
Dry slopes of hills uncultured, bare, forlorn,
  And green in rocky clefts with whins and briers;
Then rich cloud masses dyed the violet's hue,
With orange sunbeams dropping swiftly through.

Ay, I behold all this full easily;
  My soul is jealous of my happier eyes.
And manhood envies youth. Ah, strange to see,
  By looking merely, orange-flooded skies;
Nay, any dew-drop that may near me shine:
But never more the face of Eglantine!

She was my one companion, being herself
  The jewel and adornment of my days,
My life's completeness. O, a smiling elf,
  That I do but disparage with my praise--
My playmate; and I loved her dearly and long,
And she loved me, as the tender love the strong.

Ay, but she grew, till on a time there came
  A sudden restless yearning to my heart;
And as we went a-nesting, all for shame
  And shyness, I did hold my peace, and start;
Content departed, comfort shut me out,
And there was nothing left to talk about.

She had but sixteen years, and as for me,
  Four added made my life. This pretty bird,
This fairy bird that I had cherished--she,
  Content, had sung, while I, contented, heard.
The song had ceased; the bird, with nature's art,
Had brought a thorn and set it in my heart.

The restless birth of love my soul opprest,
  I longed and wrestled for a tranquil day,
And warred with that disquiet in my breast
  As one who knows there is a better way;
But, turned against myself, I still in vain
Looked for the ancient calm to come again.

My tired soul could to itself confess
  That she deserved a wiser love than mine;
To love more truly were to love her less,
  And for this truth I still awoke to pine;
I had a dim belief that it would be
A better thing for her, a blessed thing for me.

Good hast Thou made them--comforters right sweet;
  Good hast Thou made the world, to mankind lent;
Good are Thy dropping clouds that feed the wheat;
  Good are Thy stars above the firmament.
Take to Thee, take, Thy worship, Thy renown;
The good which Thou hast made doth wear Thy crown.

For, O my God, Thy creatures are so frail,
  Thy bountiful creation is so fair.
That, drawn before us like the temple veil,
  It hides the Holy Place from thought and care,
Giving man's eyes instead its sweeping fold,
Rich as with cherub wings and apples wrought of gold.

Purple and blue and scarlet--shimmering bells
  And rare pomegranates on its broidered rim,
Glorious with chain and fretwork that the swell
  Of incense shakes to music dreamy and dim,
Till on a day comes loss, that God makes gain,
And death and darkness rend the veil in twain.





A MOTHER SHOWING THE PORTRAIT OF HER CHILD.

Living child or pictured cherub,
  Ne'er o'ermatched its baby grace;
And the mother, moving nearer,
  Looked it calmly in the face;
Then with slight and quiet gesture,
  And with lips that scarcely smiled,
Said--"A Portrait of my daughter
  When she was a child."

Easy thought was hers to fathom,
  Nothing hard her glance to read,
For it seemed to say, "No praises
  For this little child I need:
If you see, I see far better,
  And I will not feign to care
For a stranger's prompt assurance
  That the face is fair."

Softly clasped and half extended,
  She her dimpled hands doth lay:
So they doubtless placed them, saying--
  "Little one, you must not play."
And while yet his work was growing,
  This the painter's hand hath shown,
That the little heart was making
  Pictures of its own.

Is it warm in that green valley,
  Vale of childhood, where you dwell?
Is it calm in that green valley,
  Round whose bournes such great hills swell?
Are there giants in the valley--
  Giants leaving footprints yet?
Are there angels in the valley?
  Tell me--I forget.

Answer, answer, for the lilies,
  Little one, o'ertop you much,
And the mealy gold within them
  You can scarcely reach to touch;
O how far their aspect differs,
  Looking up and looking down!
You look up in that green valley--
  Valley of renown.

Are there voices in the valley,
  Lying near the heavenly gate?
When it opens, do the harp-strings,
  Touched within, reverberate?
When, like shooting-stars, the angels
  To your couch at nightfall go,
Are their swift wings heard to rustle?
  Tell me! for you know.

Yes, you know; and you are silent,
  Not a word shall asking win;
Little mouth more sweet than rosebud,
  Fast it locks the secret in.
Not a glimpse upon your present
  You unfold to glad my view;
Ah, what secrets of your future
 I could tell to you!

Sunny present! thus I read it,
  By remembrance of my past:--
Its to-day and its to-morrow
  Are as lifetimes vague and vast;
And each face in that green valley
  Takes for you an aspect mild,
And each voice grows soft in saying--
  "Kiss me, little child!"

As a boon the kiss is granted:
  Baby mouth, your touch is sweet,
Takes the love without the trouble
  From those lips that with it meet;
Gives the love, O pure! O tender!
  Of the valley where it grows,
But the baby heart receiveth
  MORE THAN IT BESTOWS.

Comes the future to the present--
  "Ah!" she saith, "too blithe of mood;
Why that smile which seems to whisper--
  'I am happy, God is good?'
God is good: that truth eternal
  Sown for you in happier years,
I must tend it in my shadow,
  Water it with tears.

"Ah, sweet present! I must lead thee
  By a daylight more subdued;
There must teach thee low to whisper--
  'I am mournful, God is good!'"
Peace, thou future! clouds are coming,
  Stooping from the mountain crest,
But that sunshine floods the valley:
  Let her--let her rest.

Comes the future to the present--
  "Child," she saith, "and wilt thou rest?
How long, child, before thy footsteps
  Fret to reach yon cloudy crest?
Ah, the valley!--angels guard it,
  But the heights are brave to see;
Looking down were long contentment:
    Come up, child, to me."

So she speaks, but do not heed her,
  Little maid with wondrous eyes,
Not afraid, but clear and tender,
  Blue, and filled with prophecies;
Thou for whom life's veil unlifted
  Hangs, whom warmest valleys fold,
Lift the veil, the charm dissolveth--
    Climb, but heights are cold.

There are buds that fold within them,
  Closed and covered from our sight,
Many a richly tinted petal,
  Never looked on by the light:
Fain to see their shrouded faces,
  Sun and dew are long at strife,
Till at length the sweet buds open--
    Such a bud is life.

When the rose of thine own being
  Shall reveal its central fold,
Thou shalt look within and marvel,
  Fearing what thine eyes behold;
What it shows and what it teaches
  Are not things wherewith to part;
Thorny rose! that always costeth
    Beatings at the heart.

Look in fear, for there is dimness;
  Ills unshapen float anigh.
Look in awe, for this same nature
  Once the Godhead deigned to die.
Look in love, for He doth love it,
  And its tale is best of lore:
Still humanity grows dearer,
      Being learned the more.

Learn, but not the less bethink thee
  How that all can mingle tears;
But his joy can none discover,
  Save to them that are his peers;
And that they whose lips do utter
  Language such as bards have sung--
Lo! their speech shall be to many
    As an unknown tongue.

Learn, that if to thee the meaning
  Of all other eyes be shown,
Fewer eyes can ever front thee,
  That are skilled to read thine own;
And that if thy love's deep current
  Many another's far outflows,
Then thy heart must take forever,
    LESS THAN IT BESTOWS.




STRIFE AND PEACE.



The yellow poplar-leaves came down
  And like a carpet lay,
No waftings were in the sunny air
  To flutter them away;
And he stepped on blithe and debonair
  That warm October day.

"The boy," saith he, "hath got his own,
  But sore has been the fight,
For ere his life began the strife
  That ceased but yesternight;
For the will," he said, "the kinsfolk read,
  And read it not aright.

"His cause was argued in the court
  Before his christening day,
And counsel was heard, and judge demurred,
  And bitter waxed the fray;
Brother with brother spake no word
  When they met in the way.

"Against each one did each contend,
  And all against the heir.
I would not bend, for I knew the end--
  I have it for my share,
And nought repent, though my first friend
  From henceforth I must spare.

"Manor and moor and farm and wold
  Their greed begrudged him sore,
And parchments old with passionate hold
  They guarded heretofore;
And they carped at signature and seal,
  But they may carp no more.

"An old affront will stir the heart
  Through years of rankling pain,
And I feel the fret that urged me yet
  That warfare to maintain;
For an enemy's loss may well be set
  Above an infant's gain.

"An enemy's loss I go to prove,
  Laugh out, thou little heir!
Laugh in his face who vowed to chase
  Thee from thy birthright fair;
For I come to set thee in thy place:
  Laugh out, and do not spare."

A man of strife, in wrathful mood
  He neared the nurse's door;
With poplar-leaves the roof and eaves
  Were thickly scattered o'er,
And yellow as they a sunbeam lay
  Along the cottage floor.

"Sleep on, thou pretty, pretty lamb,"
  He hears the fond nurse say;
"And if angels stand at thy right hand,
  As now belike they may,
And if angels meet at thy bed's feet,
  I fear them not this day.

"Come wealth, come want to thee, dear heart,
  It was all one to me,
For thy pretty tongue far sweeter rung
  Than coinèd gold and fee;
And ever the while thy waking smile
  It was right fair to see.

"Sleep, pretty bairn, and never know
  Who grudged and who transgressed:
Thee to retain I was full fain,
  But God, He knoweth best!
And His peace upon thy brow lies plain
  As the sunshine on thy breast!"

The man of strife, he enters in,
  Looks, and his pride doth cease;
Anger and sorrow shall be to-morrow
  Trouble, and no release;
But the babe whose life awoke the strife
  Hath entered into peace.








THE DREAMS THAT CAME TRUE.


I saw in a vision once, our mother-sphere
  The world, her fixed foredooméd oval tracing,
Rolling and rolling on and resting never,
  While like a phantom fell, behind her pacing
The unfurled flag of night, her shadow drear
  Fled as she fled and hung to her forever.

Great Heaven! methought, how strange a doom to share.
  Would I may never bear
  Inevitable darkness after me
(Darkness endowed with drawings strong,
  And shadowy hands that cling unendingly),
  Nor feel that phantom-wings behind me sweep,
As she feels night pursuing through the long
  Illimitable reaches of "the vasty deep."

 

God save you, gentlefolks. There was a man
  Who lay awake at midnight on his bed,
Watching the spiral flame that feeding ran
  Among the logs upon his hearth, and shed
A comfortable glow, both warm and dim,
On crimson curtains that encompassed him.

Right stately was his chamber, soft and white
  The pillow, and his quilt was eider-down.
What mattered it to him though all that night
  The desolate driving cloud might lower and frown,
And winds were up the eddying sleet to chase,
That drave and drave and found no settling-place?

What mattered it that leafless trees might rock,
  Or snow might drift athwart his window-pane?
He bare a charméd life against their shock,
  Secure from cold, hunger, and weather stain;
Fixed in his right, and born to good estate,
From common ills set by and separate.

From work and want and fear of want apart,
  This man (men called him Justice Wilvermore),--
This man had comforted his cheerful heart
  With all that it desired from every shore.
He had a right,--the right of gold is strong,--
He stood upon his right his whole life long.

Custom makes all things easy, and content
  Is careless, therefore on the storm and cold,
As he lay waking, never a thought he spent,
  Albeit across the vale beneath the wold,
Along a reedy mere that frozen lay,
A range of sordid hovels stretched away.

What cause had he to think on them, forsooth?
  What cause that night beyond another night?
He was familiar even from his youth
  With their long ruin and their evil plight.
The wintry wind would search them like a scout,
The water froze within as freely as without.

He think upon them? No! They were forlorn,
  So were the cowering inmates whom they held;
A thriftless tribe, to shifts and leanness born,
  Ever complaining: infancy or eld
Alike. But there was rent, or long ago
Those cottage roofs had met with overthrow.

For this they stood; and what his thoughts might be
  That winter night, I know not; but I know
That, while the creeping flame fed silently
  And cast upon his bed a crimson glow,
The Justice slept, and shortly in his sleep
He fell to dreaming, and his dream was deep.

He dreamed that over him a shadow came;
  And when he looked to find the cause, behold
Some person knelt between him and the flame:--
  A cowering figure of one frail and old,--
A woman; and she prayed as he descried,
And spread her feeble hands, and shook and sighed.

"Good Heaven!" the Justice cried, and being distraught
  He called not to her, but he looked again:
She wore a tattered cloak, but she had naught
  Upon her head; and she did quake amain,
And spread her wasted hands and poor attire
To gather in the brightness of his fire.

"I know you, woman!" then the Justice cried;
  "I know that woman well," he cried aloud;
"The shepherd Aveland's widow: God me guide!
  A pauper kneeling on my hearth": and bowed
The hag, like one at home, its warmth to share!
"How dares she to intrude? What does she there?

"Ho, woman, ho!"--but yet she did not stir,
  Though from her lips a fitful plaining broke;
"I'll ring my people up to deal with her;
  I'll rouse the house," he cried; but while he spoke
He turned, and saw, but distant from his bed,
Another form,--a Darkness with a head.

Then in a rage, he shouted, "Who are you?"
  For little in the gloom he might discern.
"Speak out; speak now; or I will make you rue
  The hour!" but there was silence, and a stern,
Dark face from out the dusk appeared to lean,
And then again drew back, and was not seen.

"God!" cried the dreaming man, right impiously,
  "What have I done, that these my sleep affray?"
"God!" said the Phantom, "I appeal to Thee,
  Appoint Thou me this man to be my prey."
"God!" sighed the kneeling woman, frail and old,
"I pray Thee take me, for the world is cold."

Then said the trembling Justice, in affright,
  "Fiend, I adjure thee, speak thine errand here!"
And lo! it pointed in the failing light
  Toward the woman, answering, cold and clear,
"Thou art ordained an answer to thy prayer;
But first to tell _her_ tale that kneeleth there."

"_Her_ tale!" the Justice cried. "A pauper's tale!"
  And he took heart at this so low behest,
And let the stoutness of his will prevail,
  Demanding, "Is't for _her_ you break my rest?
She went to jail of late for stealing wood,
She will again for this night's hardihood.

"I sent her; and to-morrow, as I live,
  I will commit her for this trespass here."
"Thou wilt not!" quoth the Shadow, "thou wilt give
  Her story words"; and then it stalked anear
And showed a lowering face, and, dread to see,
A countenance of angered majesty.

Then said the Justice, all his thoughts astray,
  With that material Darkness chiding him,
"If this must be, then speak to her, I pray,
  And bid her move, for all the room is dim
By reason of the place she holds to-night:
She kneels between me and the warmth and light."

"With adjurations deep and drawings strong,
  And with the power," it said, "unto me given,
I call upon thee, man, to tell thy wrong,
  Or look no more upon the face of Heaven.
Speak! though she kneel throughout the livelong night,
And yet shall kneel between thee and the light."

This when the Justice heard, he raised his hands,
  And held them as the dead in effigy
Hold theirs, when carved upon a tomb. The bands
  Of fate had bound him fast: no remedy
Was left: his voice unto himself was strange,
And that unearthly vision did not change.

He said, "That woman dwells anear my door,
  Her life and mine began the selfsame day,
And I am hale and hearty: from my store
  I never spared her aught: she takes her way
Of me unheeded; pining, pinching care
Is all the portion that she has to share.

"She is a broken-down, poor, friendless wight,
  Through labor and through sorrow early old;
And I have known of this her evil plight,
  Her scanty earnings, and her lodgment cold;
A patienter poor soul shall ne'er be found:
She labored on my land the long year round.

"What wouldst thou have me say, thou fiend abhorred?
  Show me no more thine awful visage grim.
If thou obey'st a greater, tell thy lord
  That I have paid her wages. Cry to him!
He has not _much_ against me. None can say
I have not paid her wages day by day.

"The spell! It draws me. I must speak again;
  And speak against myself; and speak aloud.
The woman once approached me to complain,--
  'My wages are so low.' I may be proud;
It is a fault." "Ay," quoth the Phantom fell,
"Sinner! it is a fault: thou sayest well."

"She made her moan, 'My wages are so low.'"
  "Tell on!" "She said," he answered, "'My best days
Are ended, and the summer is but slow
  To come; and my good strength for work decays
By reason that I live so hard, and lie
On winter nights so bare for poverty.'"

"And you replied,"--began the lowering shade,
  "And I replied," the Justice followed on,
"That wages like to mine my neighbor paid;
  And if I raised the wages of the one
Straight should the others murmur; furthermore,
The winter was as winters gone before.

"No colder and not longer." "Afterward?"--
  The Phantom questioned. "Afterward," he groaned,
"She said my neighbor was a right good lord,
  Never a roof was broken that he owned;
He gave much coal and clothing. 'Doth he so?
Work for my neighbor, then,' I answered. 'Go!

"'You are full welcome.' Then she mumbled out
  She hoped I was not angry; hoped, forsooth,
I would forgive her: and I turned about,
  And said I should be angry in good truth
If this should be again, or ever more
She dared to stop me thus at the church door."

"Then?" quoth the Shade; and he, constrained, said on,
  "Then she, reproved, curtseyed herself away."
"Hast met her since?" it made demand anon;
  And after pause the Justice answered, "Ay;
Some wood was stolen; my people made a stir:
She was accused, and I did sentence her."

But yet, and yet, the dreaded questions came:
  "And didst thou weigh the matter,--taking thought
Upon her sober life and honest fame?"
  "I gave it," he replied, with gaze distraught;
"I gave it, Fiend, the usual care; I took
The usual pains; I could not nearer look,

"Because,--because their pilfering had got head.
  What wouldst thou more? The neighbors pleaded hard,
'Tis true, and many tears the creature shed;
  But I had vowed their prayers to disregard,
Heavily strike the first that robbed my land,
And put down thieving with a steady hand.

"She said she was not guilty. Ay, 'tis true
  She said so, but the poor are liars all.
O thou fell Fiend, what wilt thou? Must I view
  Thy darkness yet, and must thy shadow fall
Upon me miserable? I have done
No worse, no more than many a scathless one."

"Yet," quoth the Shade, "if ever to thine ears
  The knowledge of her blamelessness was brought,
Or others have confessed with dying tears
  The crime she suffered for, and thou hast wrought
All reparation in thy power, and told
Into her empty hand thy brightest gold:--

"If thou hast honored her, and hast proclaimed
  Her innocence and thy deplored wrong,
Still thou art nought; for thou shalt yet be blamed
  In that she, feeble, came before thee strong,
And thou, in cruel haste to deal a blow,
Because thou hadst been angered, worked her woe.

"But didst thou right her? Speak!" The Justice sighed,
  And beaded drops stood out upon his brow;
"How could I humble me," forlorn he cried,
  "To a base beggar? Nay, I will avow
That I did ill. I will reveal the whole;
I kept that knowledge in my secret soul."

"Hear him!" the Phantom muttered; "hear this man,
  O changeless God upon the judgment throne."
With that, cold tremors through his pulses ran,
  And lamentably he did make his moan;
While, with its arms upraised above his head,
The dim dread visitor approached his bed.

"Into these doors," it said, "which thou hast closed,
  Daily this woman shall from henceforth come;
Her kneeling form shall yet be interposed
  Till all thy wretched hours have told their sum;
Shall yet be interposed by day, by night,
Between thee, sinner, and the warmth and light.

"Remembrance of her want shall make thy meal
  Like ashes, and thy wrong thou shalt not right.
But what! Nay, verily, nor wealth nor weal
  From henceforth shall afford thy soul delight.
Till men shall lay thy head beneath the sod,
There shall be no deliverance, saith my God."

"Tell me thy name," the dreaming Justice cried;
  "By what appointment dost thou doom me thus?"
"'Tis well that thou shouldst know me," it replied,
  "For mine thou art, and nought shall sever us;
From thine own lips and life I draw my force:
The name thy nation give me is REMORSE."

This when he heard, the dreaming man cried out,
  And woke affrighted; and a crimson glow
The dying ember shed. Within, without,
  In eddying rings the silence seemed to flow;
The wind had lulled, and on his forehead shone
The last low gleam; he was indeed alone.

"O, I have had a fearful dream," said he;
  "I will take warning and for mercy trust;
The fiend Remorse shall never dwell with me:
  I will repair that wrong, I will be just,
I will be kind, I will my ways amend."
_Now the first dream is told unto its end._

Anigh the frozen mere a cottage stood,
  A piercing wind swept round and shook the door,
The shrunken door, and easy way made good,
  And drave long drifts of snow along the floor.
It sparkled there like diamonds, for the moon
Was shining in, and night was at the noon.

Before her dying embers, bent and pale,
  A woman sat because her bed was cold;
She heard the wind, the driving sleet and hail,
  And she was hunger-bitten, weak and old;
Yet while she cowered, and while the casement shook,
Upon her trembling knees she held a book,--

A comfortable book for them that mourn,
  And good to raise the courage of the poor;
It lifts the veil and shows, beyond the bourne,
  Their Elder Brother, from His home secure,
That for them desolate He died to win,
Repeating, "Come, ye blessed, enter in."

What thought she on, this woman? on her days
  Of toil, or on the supperless night forlorn?
I think not so; the heart but seldom weighs
  With conscious care a burden always borne;
And she was used to these things, had grown old
In fellowship with toil, hunger, and cold.

Then did she think how sad it was to live
  Of all the good this world can yield bereft?
No, her untutored thoughts she did not give
  To such a theme; but in their warp and weft
She wove a prayer: then in the midnight deep
Faintly and slow she fell away to sleep.

A strange, a marvellous sleep, which brought a dream.
  And it was this: that all at once she heard
The pleasant babbling of a little stream
  That ran beside her door, and then a bird
Broke out in songs. She looked, and lo! the rime
And snow had melted; it was summer time!

And all the cold was over, and the mere
  Full sweetly swayed the flags and rushes green;
The mellow sunlight poured right warm and clear
  Into her casement, and thereby were seen
Fair honeysuckle flowers, and wandering bees
Were hovering round the blossom-laden trees.

She said, "I will betake me to my door,
  And will look out and see this wondrous sight,
How summer is come back, and frost is o'er,
  And all the air warm waxen in a night."
With that she opened, but for fear she cried,
For lo! two Angels,--one on either side.

And while she looked, with marvelling measureless,
  The Angels stood conversing face to face,
But neither spoke to her. "The wilderness,"
  One Angel said, "the solitary place,
Shall yet be glad for Him." And then full fain
The other Angel answered, "He shall reign."

And when the woman heard, in wondering wise,
  She whispered, "They are speaking of my Lord."
And straightway swept across the open skies
  Multitudes like to these. They took the word,
That flock of Angels, "He shall come again,
My Lord, my Lord!" they sang, "and He shall reign!"

Then they, drawn up into the blue o'er-head,
  Right happy, shining ones, made haste to flee;
And those before her one to other said,
  "Behold He stands aneath yon almond-tree."
This when the woman heard, she fain had gazed,
But paused for reverence, and bowed down amazed.

After she looked, for this her dream was deep;
  She looked, and there was nought beneath the tree;
Yet did her love and longing overleap
  The fear of Angels, awful though they be,
And she passed out between the blessed things,
And brushed her mortal weeds against their wings.

O, all the happy world was in its best,
  The trees were covered thick with buds and flowers,
And these were dropping honey; for the rest,
  Sweetly the birds were piping in their bowers;
Across the grass did groups of Angels go,
And Saints in pairs were walking to and fro.

Then did she pass toward the almond-tree,
  And none she saw beneath it: yet each Saint
Upon his coming meekly bent the knee,
  And all their glory as they gazed waxed faint.
And then a 'lighting Angel neared the place,
And folded his fair wings before his face.

She also knelt, and spread her aged hands
  As feeling for the sacred human feet;
She said, "Mine eyes are held, but if He stands
  Anear, I will not let Him hence retreat
Except He bless me." Then, O sweet! O fair!
Some words were spoken, but she knew not where.

She knew not if beneath the boughs they woke,
  Or dropt upon her from the realms above;
"What wilt thou, woman?" in the dream He spoke,
  "Thy sorrow moveth Me, thyself I love;
Long have I counted up thy mournful years,
Once I did weep to wipe away thy tears."

She said: "My one Redeemer, only blest,
  I know Thy voice, and from my yearning heart
Draw out my deep desire, my great request,
  My prayer, that I might enter where Thou art.
Call me, O call from this world troublesome,
And let me see Thy face." He answered, "Come."

_Here is the ending of the second dream._
  It is a frosty morning, keen and cold,
Fast locked are silent mere and frozen stream,
  And snow lies sparkling on the desert wold;
With savory morning meats they spread the board,
But Justice Wilvermore will walk abroad.

"Bring me my cloak," quoth he, as one in haste.
  "Before you breakfast, sir?" his man replies.
"Ay," quoth he quickly, and he will not taste
  Of aught before him, but in urgent wise
As he would fain some carking care allay,
Across the frozen field he takes his way.

"A dream! how strange that it should move me so,
  'Twas but a dream," quoth Justice Wilvermore:
"And yet I cannot peace nor pleasure know,
  For wrongs I have not heeded heretofore;
Silver and gear the crone shall have of me,
And dwell for life in yonder cottage free.

"For visions of the night are fearful things,
  Remorse is dread, though merely in a dream;
I will not subject me to visitings
  Of such a sort again. I will esteem
My peace above my pride. From natures rude
A little gold will buy me gratitude.

"The woman shall have leave to gather wood,
  As much as she may need, the long year round;
She shall, I say,--moreover, it were good
  Yon other cottage roofs to render sound.
Thus to my soul the ancient peace restore,
And sleep at ease," quoth Justice Wilvermore.

With that he nears the door: a frosty rime
  Is branching over it, and drifts are deep
Against the wall. He knocks, and there is time,--
  (For none doth open),--time to list the sweep
And whistle of the wind along the mere
Through beds of stiffened reeds and rushes sere.

"If she be out, I have my pains for nought,"
  He saith, and knocks again, and yet once more,
But to his ear nor step nor stir is brought;
  And after pause, he doth unlatch the door
And enter. No: she is not out, for see
She sits asleep 'mid frost-work winterly.

Asleep, asleep before her empty grate,
  Asleep, asleep, albeit the landlord call.
"What, dame," he saith, and comes toward her straight,
  "Asleep so early!" But whate'er befall,
She sleepeth; then he nears her, and behold
He lays a hand on hers, and it is cold.

Then doth the Justice to his home return;
  From that day forth he wears a sadder brow;
His hands are opened, and his heart doth learn
  The patience of the poor. He made a vow
And keeps it, for the old and sick have shared
His gifts, their sordid homes he hath repaired.

And some he hath made happy, but for him
  Is happiness no more. He doth repent,
And now the light of joy is waxen dim,
  Are all his steps toward the Highest sent;
He looks for mercy, and he waits release
Above, for this world doth not yield him peace.

Night after night, night after desolate night,
  Day after day, day after tedious day,
Stands by his fire, and dulls its gleamy light,
  Paceth behind or meets him in the way;
Or shares the path by hedgerow, mere, or stream,
The visitor that doomed him in his dream.

    Thy kingdom come.
I heard a Seer cry,--"The wilderness,
    The solitary place,
Shall yet be glad for Him, and He shall bless
(Thy kingdom come) with his revealéd face
The forests; they shall drop their precious gum,
And shed for Him their balm: and He shall yield
The grandeur of His speech to charm the field.

"Then all the soothéd winds shall drop to listen,
    (Thy kingdom come,)
Comforted waters waxen calm shall glisten
With bashful tremblement beneath His smile:
    And Echo ever the while
Shall take, and in her awful joy repeat,
The laughter of His lips--(thy kingdom come):
And hills that sit apart shall be no longer dumb;
    No, they shall shout and shout,
Raining their lovely loyalty along the dewy plain:
    And valleys round about,

"And all the well-contented land, made sweet
    With flowers she opened at His feet,
Shall answer; shout and make the welkin ring
And tell it to the stars, shout, shout, and sing;
    Her cup being full to the brim,
    Her poverty made rich with Him,
Her yearning satisfied to its utmost sum,--
Lift up thy voice, O earth, prepare thy song,
    It shall not yet be long,
Lift up, O earth, for He shall come again,
Thy Lord; and He shall reign, and He SHALL reign,--
    Thy kingdom come."




SONGS

ON

THE VOICES OF BIRDS.







SONGS ON THE VOICES OF BIRDS.


INTRODUCTION.

CHILD AND BOATMAN.

"Martin, I wonder who makes all the songs."
"You do, sir?"
               "Yes, I wonder how they come."
"Well, boy, I wonder what you'll wonder next!"
"But somebody must make them?"
                               "Sure enough."
"Does your wife know?"
                       "She never said she did."
"You told me that she knew so many things."
"I said she was a London woman, sir,
And a fine scholar, but I never said
She knew about the songs."
                           "I wish she did."
"And I wish no such thing; she knows enough,
She knows too much already. Look you now,
This vessel's off the stocks, a tidy craft."
"A schooner, Martin?"
                      "No, boy, no; a brig,
Only she's schooner rigged,--a lovely craft."
"Is she for me? O, thank you, Martin, dear.
What shall I call her?"
                        "Well, sir, what you please."
"Then write on her 'The Eagle.'"
                                 "Bless the child!
Eagle! why, you know naught of eagles, you.
When we lay off the coast, up Canada way,
And chanced to be ashore when twilight fell,
That was the place for eagles; bald they were,
With eyes as yellow as gold."
                              "O, Martin, dear,
Tell me about them."
                     "Tell! there's nought to tell,
Only they snored o' nights and frighted us."
"Snored?"
          "Ay, I tell you, snored; they slept upright
In the great oaks by scores; as true as time,
If I'd had aught upon my mind just then,
I wouldn't have walked that wood for unknown gold;
It was most awful. When the moon was full,
I've seen them fish at night, in the middle watch,
When she got low. I've seen them plunge like stones,
And come up fighting with a fish as long,
Ay, longer than my arm; and they would sail,--
When they had struck its life out,--they would sail
Over the deck, and show their fell, fierce eyes,
And croon for pleasure, hug the prey, and speed
Grand as a frigate on a wind."
                               "My ship,
She must be called 'The Eagle' after these.
And, Martin, ask your wife about the songs
When you go in at dinner-time."
                                "Not I."


THE NIGHTINGALE HEARD BY THE UNSATISFIED HEART.

        When in a May-day hush
        Chanteth the Missel-thrush
The harp o' the heart makes answer with murmurous stirs;
        When Robin-redbreast sings,
        We think on budding springs,
And Culvers when they coo are love's remembrancers.

        But thou in the trance of light
        Stayest the feeding night,
And Echo makes sweet her lips with the utterance wise,
        And casts at our glad feet,
        In a wisp of fancies fleet,
Life's fair, life's unfulfilled, impassioned prophecies.

        Her central thought full well
        Thou hast the wit to tell,
To take the sense o' the dark and to yield it so;
        The moral of moonlight
        To set in a cadence bright,
And sing our loftiest dream that we thought none did know.

        I have no nest as thou,
        Bird on the blossoming bough,
Yet over thy tongue outfloweth the song o' my soul,
        Chanting, "forego thy strife,
        The spirit out-acts the life,
But MUCH is seldom theirs who can perceive THE WHOLE.

        "Thou drawest a perfect lot
        All thine, but holden not,
Lie low, at the feet of beauty that ever shall bide;
        There might be sorer smart
        Than thine, far-seeing heart,
Whose fate is still to yearn, and not be satisfied."


SAND MARTINS.

I passed an inland-cliff precipitate;
  From tiny caves peeped many a soot-black poll;
In each a mother-martin sat elate,
  And of the news delivered her small soul.

Fantastic chatter! hasty, glad, and gay,
  Whereof the meaning was not ill to tell:
"Gossip, how wags the world with you to-day?"
  "Gossip, the world wags well, the world wags well."

And heark'ning, I was sure their little ones
  Were in the bird-talk, and discourse was made
Concerning hot sea-bights and tropic suns,
  For a clear sultriness the tune conveyed;--

And visions of the sky as of a cup
  Hailing down light on pagan Pharaoh's sand,
And quivering air-waves trembling up and up,
  And blank stone faces marvellously bland.

"When should the young be fledged and with them hie
  Where costly day drops down in crimson light?
(Fortunate countries of the firefly
  Swarm with blue diamonds all the sultry night,

"And the immortal moon takes turn with them.)
  When should they pass again by that red land,
Where lovely mirage works a broidered hem
  To fringe with phantom-palms a robe of sand?

"When should they dip their breasts again and play
  In slumberous azure pools, clear as the air,
Where rosy-winged flamingoes fish all day,
  Stalking amid the lotus blossom fair?

"Then, over podded tamarinds bear their flight,
  While cassias blossom in the zone of calms,
And so betake them to a south sea-bight,
  To gossip in the crowns of cocoa-palms

"Whose roots are in the spray. O, haply there
  Some dawn, white-winged they might chance to find
A frigate standing in to make more fair
  The loneliness unaltered of mankind.

"A frigate come to water: nuts would fall,
  And nimble feet would climb the flower-flushed strand,
While northern talk would ring, and there withal
  The martins would desire the cool north land.

"And all would be as it had been before;
  Again at eve there would be news to tell;
Who passed should hear them chant it o'er and o'er,
  Gossip, how wags the world?' 'Well, gossip, well.'"




A RAVEN IN A WHITE CHINE.

I saw when I looked up, on either hand,
  A pale high chalk-cliff, reared aloft in white;
A narrowing rent soon closed toward the land,--
  Toward the sea, an open yawning bight.

The polished tide, with scarce a hint of blue,
  Washed in the bight; above with angry moan
A raven, that was robbed, sat up in view,
  Croaking and crying on a ledge alone.

"Stand on thy nest, spread out thy fateful wings,
  With sullen hungry love bemoan thy brood,
For boys have wrung their necks, those imp-like things,
  Whose beaks dripped crimson daily at their food.

"Cry, thou black prophetess! cry, and despair,
  None love thee, none! Their father was thy foe,
Whose father in his youth did know thy lair,
  And steal thy little demons long ago.

"Thou madest many childless for their sake,
  And picked out many eyes that loved the light.
Cry, thou black prophetess! sit up, awake,
  Forebode; and ban them through the desolate night"

Lo! while I spake it, with a crimson hue
  The dipping sun endowed that silver flood,
And all the cliffs flushed red, and up she flew,
  The bird, as mad to bathe in airy blood.

"Nay, thou mayst cry, the omen is not thine,
  Thou aged priestess of fell doom, and fate.
It is not blood: thy gods are making wine,
  They spilt the must outside their city gate,

"And stained their azure pavement with the lees:
  They will not listen though thou cry aloud.
Old Chance, thy dame, sits mumbling at her ease,
  Nor hears; the fair hag, Luck, is in her shroud.

"They heed not, they withdraw the sky-hung sign,
  Thou hast no charm against the favorite race;
Thy gods pour out for it, not blood, but wine:
  There is no justice in their dwelling-place!

"Safe in their father's house the boys shall rest,
  Though thy fell brood doth stark and silent lie;
Their unborn sons may yet despoil thy nest:
  Cry, thou black prophetess! lift up! cry, cry!"


THE WARBLING OF BLACKBIRDS.

    When I hear the waters fretting,
    When I see the chestnut letting
All her lovely blossom falter down, I think, "Alas the day!"
    Once with magical sweet singing,
    Blackbirds set the woodland ringing,
That awakes no more while April hours wear themselves away.

    In our hearts fair hope lay smiling,
    Sweet as air, and all beguiling;
And there hung a mist of bluebells on the slope and down the dell;
    And we talked of joy and splendor
    That the years unborn would render,
And the blackbirds helped us with the story, for they knew it well.

    Piping, fluting, "Bees are humming,
    April's here, and summer's coming;
Don't forget us when you walk, a man with men, in pride and joy;
    Think on us in alleys shady,
    When you step a graceful lady;
For no fairer day have we to hope for, little girl and boy.

    "Laugh and play, O lisping waters,
    Lull our downy sons and daughters;
Come, O wind, and rock their leafy cradle in thy wanderings coy;
    When they wake we'll end the measure
    With a wild sweet cry of pleasure,
And a 'Hey down derry, let's be merry! little girl and boy!'"


SEA-MEWS IN WINTER TIME.

I walked beside a dark gray sea.
  And said, "O world, how cold thou art!
Thou poor white world, I pity thee,
  For joy and warmth from thee depart.

"Yon rising wave licks off the snow,
  Winds on the crag each other chase,
In little powdery whirls they blow
  The misty fragments down its face.

"The sea is cold, and dark its rim,
  Winter sits cowering on the wold,
And I beside this watery brim,
  Am also lonely, also cold."

I spoke, and drew toward a rock,
  Where many mews made twittering sweet;
Their wings upreared, the clustering flock
  Did pat the sea-grass with their feet.

A rock but half submerged, the sea
  Ran up and washed it while they fed;
Their fond and foolish ecstasy
  A wondering in my fancy bred.

Joy companied with every cry,
  Joy in their food, in that keen wind,
That heaving sea, that shaded sky,
  And in themselves, and in their kind.

The phantoms of the deep at play!
  What idless graced the twittering things;
Luxurious paddlings in the spray,
  And delicate lifting up of wings.

Then all at once a flight, and fast
  The lovely crowd flew out to sea;
If mine own life had been recast,
  Earth had not looked more changed to me.

"Where is the cold? Yon clouded skies
  Have only dropt their curtains low
To shade the old mother where she lies
  Sleeping a little, 'neath the snow.

"The cold is not in crag, nor scar,
  Not in the snows that lap the lea,
Not in yon wings that beat afar,
  Delighting, on the crested sea;

"No, nor in yon exultant wind
  That shakes the oak and bends the pine.
Look near, look in, and thou shalt find
  No sense of cold, fond fool, but thine!"

With that I felt the gloom depart,
  And thoughts within me did unfold,
Whose sunshine warmed me to the heart,--
  I walked in joy, and was not cold.




THE MORNING WATCH.

THE COMING IN OF THE "MERMAIDEN."

The moon is bleached as white as wool,
  And just dropping under;
Every star is gone but three,
  And they hang far asunder,--
There's a sea-ghost all in gray,
  A tall shape of wonder!

I am not satisfied with sleep,--
  The night is not ended.
But look how the sea-ghost comes,
  With wan skirts extended,
Stealing up in this weird hour,
  When light and dark are blended.

A vessel! To the old pier end
  Her happy course she's keeping;
I heard them name her yesterday:
  Some were pale with weeping;
Some with their heart-hunger sighed,
  She's in,--and they are sleeping.

O! now with fancied greetings blest,
  They comfort their long aching:
The sea of sleep hath borne to them
  What would not come with waking,
And the dreams shall most be true
  In their blissful breaking.

The stars are gone, the rose-bloom comes,--
  No blush of maid is sweeter;
The red sun, half way out of bed,
  Shall be the first to greet her.
None tell the news, yet sleepers wake,
  And rise, and run to meet her.

Their lost they have, they hold; from pain
  A keener bliss they borrow.
How natural is joy, my heart!
  How easy after sorrow!
For once, the best is come that hope
  Promised them "to-morrow."




SONG OF MARGARET.

Ay, I saw her, we have met,--
  Married eyes how sweet they be,--
Are you happier, Margaret,
  Than you might have been with me?
Silence! make no more ado!
  Did she think I should forget?
Matters nothing, though I knew,
  Margaret, Margaret.

Once those eyes, full sweet, full shy,
  Told a certain thing to mine;
What they told me I put by,
  O, so careless of the sign.
Such an easy thing to take,
  And I did not want it then;
Fool! I wish my heart would break,
  Scorn is hard on hearts of men.

Scorn of self is bitter work,--
  Each of us has felt it now:
Bluest skies she counted mirk,
  Self-betrayed of eyes and brow;
As for me, I went my way,
  And a better man drew nigh,
Fain to earn, with long essay,
  What the winner's hand threw by.

Matters not in deserts old,
  What was born, and waxed, and yearned,
Year to year its meaning told,
  I am come,--its deeps are learned,--
Come, but there is naught to say,--
  Married eyes with mine have met.
Silence! O, I had my day,
  Margaret, Margaret.


SONG OF THE GOING AWAY.

"Old man, upon the green hillside,
  With yellow flowers besprinkled o'er,
How long in silence wilt thou bide
  At this low stone door?

"I stoop: within 'tis dark and still;
  But shadowy paths methinks there be,
And lead they far into the hill?"
  "Traveller, come and see."

"'Tis dark, 'tis cold, and hung with gloom;
  I care not now within to stay;
For thee and me is scarcely room,
  I will hence away."

"Not so, not so, thou youthful guest,
  Thy foot shall issue forth no more:
Behold the chamber of thy rest,
  And the closing door!"

"O, have I 'scaped the whistling ball,
  And striven on smoky fields of fight,
And scaled the 'leaguered city's wall
  In the dangerous night;

"And borne my life unharméd still
  Through foaming gulfs of yeasty spray,
To yield it on a grassy hill
  At the noon of day?"

"Peace! Say thy prayers, and go to sleep,
  Till _some time_, ONE my seal shall break,
And deep shall answer unto deep,
  When He crieth, 'AWAKE!'"




I.

"Preserve to me my wealth," I do not say,
        For that is wasted away;
And much of it was cankered ere it went.
"Preserve to me my health." I cannot say,
        For that, upon a day,
Went after other delights to banishment.

II.

What can I pray? "Give me forgetfulness"?
        No, I would still possess
Past away smiles, though present fronts be stern.
"Give me again my kindred?" Nay; not so,
        Not idle prayers. We know
They that have crossed the river cannot return.

III.

I do not pray, "Comfort me! comfort me!"
        For how should comfort be?
O,--O that cooing mouth,--that little white head!
No; but I pray, "If it be not too late,
        Open to me the gate,
That I may find my babe when I am dead.

IV.

"Show me the path. I had forgotten Thee
        When I was happy and free,
Walking down here in the gladsome light o' the sun;
But now I come and mourn; O set my feet
        In the road to Thy blest seat,
And for the rest, O God, Thy will be done."



I.

Yon mooréd mackerel fleet
  Hangs thick as a swarm of bees,
Or a clustering village street
  Foundationless built on the seas.

II.

The mariners ply their craft,
  Each set in his castle frail;
His care is all for the draught,
  And he dries the rain-beaten sail.

III.

For rain came down in the night,
  And thunder muttered full oft,
But now the azure is bright.
  And hawks are wheeling aloft.

IV.

I take the land to my breast,
  In her coat with daisies fine;
For me are the hills in their best,
  And all that's made is mine.

V.

Sing high! "Though the red sun dip,
  There yet is a day for me;
Nor youth I count for a ship
  That long ago foundered at sea.

VI.

"Did the lost love die and depart?
  Many times since we have met;
For I hold the years in my heart,
  And all that was--is yet.

VII.

"I grant to the king his reign;
  Let us yield him homage due;
But over the lands there are twain,
  O king, I must rule as you.

VIII.

"I grant to the wise his meed,
  But his yoke I will not brook,
For God taught ME to read,--
  He lent me the world for a book."




I.

I stand on the bridge where last we stood
  When young leaves played at their best.
The children called us from yonder wood,
  And rock-doves crooned on the nest.

II.

Ah, yet you call,--in your gladness call,--
  And I hear your pattering feet;
It does not matter, matter at all,
  You fatherless children sweet,--

III.

It does not matter at all to you,
  Young hearts that pleasure besets;
The father sleeps, but the world is new,
  The child of his love forgets.

IV.

I too, it may be, before they drop,
  The leaves that flicker to-day,
Ere bountiful gleams make ripe the crop,
  Shall pass from my place away:

V.

Ere yon gray cygnet puts on her white,
  Or snow lies soft on the wold,
Shall shut these eyes on the lovely light,
  And leave the story untold.

VI.

Shall I tell it there? Ah, let that be,
  For the warm pulse beats so high;
To love to-day, and to breathe and see,--
  To-morrow perhaps to die,--

VII.

Leave it with God. But this I have known,
  That sorrow is over soon;
Some in dark nights, sore weeping alone,
  Forget by full of the moon.

VIII.

But if all loved, as the few can love,
  This world would seldom be well;
And who need wish, if he dwells above,
  For a deep, a long death knell.

IX.

There are four or five, who, passing this place,
  While they live will name me yet;
And when I am gone will think on my face,
  And feel a kind of regret.




WINSTANLEY.


_THE APOLOGY._

_Quoth the cedar to the reeds and rushes,
  "Water-grass, you know not what I do;
Know not of my storms, nor of my hushes.
      And--I know not you."

Quoth the reeds and rushes, "Wind! O waken!
  Breathe, O wind, and set our answer free,
For we have no voice, of you forsaken,
          For the cedar-tree."

Quoth the earth at midnight to the ocean,
  "Wilderness of water, lost to view,
Naught you are to me but sounds of motion;
          I am naught to you."

Quoth the ocean, "Dawn! O fairest, clearest,
  Touch me with thy golden fingers bland;
For I have no smile till thou appearest
          For the lovely land."_

_Quoth the hero dying, whelmed in glory
  "Many blame me, few have understood;
Ah, my folk, to you I leave a story,--
          Make its meaning good."

Quoth the folk, "Sing, poet! teach us, prove us
  Surely we shall learn the meaning then;
Wound us with a pain divine, O move us,
          For this man of men."_



Winstanley's deed, you kindly folk,
  With it I fill my lay,
And a nobler man ne'er walked the world,
  Let his name be what it may.

The good ship "Snowdrop" tarried long,
  Up at the vane looked he;
"Belike," he said, for the wind had dropped,
  "She lieth becalmed at sea."

The lovely ladies flocked within,
  And still would each one say,
"Good mercer, be the ships come up?"
  But still he answered "Nay."

Then stepped two mariners down the street,
  With looks of grief and fear:
"Now, if Winstanley be your name,
  We bring you evil cheer!

"For the good ship 'Snowdrop' struck,--she struck
  On the rock,--the Eddystone,
And down she went with threescore men,
  We two being left alone.

"Down in the deep, with freight and crew,
  Past any help she lies,
And never a bale has come to shore
  Of all thy merchandise."

"For cloth o' gold and comely frieze,"
  Winstanley said, and sighed,
"For velvet coif, or costly coat,
  They fathoms deep may bide.

"O thou brave skipper, blithe and kind,
  O mariners, bold and true,
Sorry at heart, right sorry am I,
  A-thinking of yours and you.

"Many long days Winstanley's breast
  Shall feel a weight within,
For a waft of wind he shall be 'feared
  And trading count but sin.

"To him no more it shall be joy
  To pace the cheerful town,
And see the lovely ladies gay
  Step on in velvet gown."

The "Snowdrop" sank at Lammas tide,
  All under the yeasty spray;
On Christmas Eve the brig "Content"
  Was also cast away.

He little thought o' New Year's night,
  So jolly as he sat then,
While drank the toast and praised the roast
  The round-faced Aldermen,--

While serving lads ran to and fro,
  Pouring the ruby wine,
And jellies trembled on the board,
  And towering pasties fine,--

While loud huzzas ran up the roof
  Till the lamps did rock o'erhead,
And holly-boughs from rafters hung
  Dropped down their berries red,--

He little thought on Plymouth Hoe,
  With every rising tide,
How the wave washed in his sailor lads,
  And laid them side by side.

There stepped a stranger to the board:
  "Now, stranger, who be ye?"
He looked to right, he looked to left,
  And "Rest you merry," quoth he;

"For you did not see the brig go down,
  Or ever a storm had blown;
For you did not see the white wave rear
  At the rock,--the Eddystone.

"She drave at the rock with sternsails set;
  Crash went the masts in twain;
She staggered back with her mortal blow,
  Then leaped at it again.

"There rose a great cry, bitter and strong,
  The misty moon looked out!
And the water swarmed with seamen's heads,
  And the wreck was strewed about.

"I saw her mainsail lash the sea
  As I clung to the rock alone;
Then she heeled over, and down she went,
  And sank like any stone.

"She was a fair ship, but all's one!
  For naught could bide the shock."
"I will take horse," Winstanley said,
  "And see this deadly rock."

"For never again shall bark o' mine
  Sail over the windy sea,
Unless, by the blessing of God, for this
  Be found a remedy."

Winstanley rode to Plymouth town
  All in the sleet and the snow,
And he looked around on shore and sound
  As he stood on Plymouth Hoe.

Till a pillar of spray rose far away,
  And shot up its stately head,
Reared and fell over, and reared again:
  "'Tis the rock! the rock!" he said.

Straight to the Mayor he took his way,
  "Good Master Mayor," quoth he,
"I am a mercer of London town,
  And owner of vessels three,--

"But for your rock of dark renown,
  I had five to track the main."
"You are one of many," the old Mayor said,
  "That on the rock complain.

"An ill rock, mercer! your words ring right,
  Well with my thoughts they chime,
For my two sons to the world to come
  It sent before their time."

"Lend me a lighter, good Master Mayor,
  And a score of shipwrights free,
For I think to raise a lantern tower
  On this rock o' destiny."

The old Mayor laughed, but sighed alsó;
  "Ah, youth," quoth he, "is rash;
Sooner, young man, thou'lt root it out
  From the sea that doth it lash.

"Who sails too near its jagged teeth,
  He shall have evil lot;
For the calmest seas that tumble there
  Froth like a boiling pot.

"And the heavier seas few look on nigh,
  But straight they lay him in dead;
A seventy-gun-ship, sir!--they'll shoot
  Higher than her mast-head.

"O, beacons sighted in the dark,
  They are right welcome things,
And pitchpots flaming on the shore
  Show fair as angel wings.

"Hast gold in hand? then light the land,
  It 'longs to thee and me;
But let alone the deadly rock
  In God Almighty's sea."

Yet said he, "Nay,--I must away,
  On the rock to set my feet;
My debts are paid, my will I made,
  Or ever I did thee greet.

"If I must die, then let me die
  By the rock and not elsewhere;
If I may live, O let me live
  To mount my lighthouse stair."

The old Mayor looked him in the face,
  And answered, "Have thy way;
Thy heart is stout, as if round about
  It was braced with an iron stay:

"Have thy will, mercer! choose thy men,
  Put off from the storm-rid shore;
God with thee be, or I shall see
  Thy face and theirs no more."

Heavily plunged the breaking wave,
  And foam flew up the lea,
Morning and even the drifted snow
  Fell into the dark gray sea.

Winstanley chose him men and gear;
  He said, "My time I waste,"
For the seas ran seething up the shore,
  And the wrack drave on in haste.

But twenty days he waited and more,
  Pacing the strand alone,
Or ever he sat his manly foot
  On the rock,--the Eddystone.

Then he and the sea began their strife,
  And worked with power and might:
Whatever the man reared up by day
  The sea broke down by night.

He wrought at ebb with bar and beam,
  He sailed to shore at flow;
And at his side, by that same tide,
  Came bar and beam alsó.

"Give in, give in," the old Mayor cried,
  "Or thou wilt rue the day."
"Yonder he goes," the townsfolk sighed,
  "But the rock will have its way.

"For all his looks that are so stout,
  And his speeches brave and fair,
He may wait on the wind, wait on the wave,
  But he'll build no lighthouse there."

In fine weather and foul weather
  The rock his arts did flout,
Through the long days and the short days,
  Till all that year ran out.

With fine weather and foul weather
  Another year came in;
"To take his wage," the workmen said,
  "We almost count a sin."

Now March was gone, came April in,
  And a sea-fog settled down,
And forth sailed he on a glassy sea,
  He sailed from Plymouth town.

With men and stores he put to sea,
  As he was wont to do;
They showed in the fog like ghosts full faint,--
  A ghostly craft and crew.

And the sea-fog lay and waxed alway,
  For a long eight days and more;
"God help our men," quoth the women then;
  "For they bide long from shore."

They paced the Hoe in doubt and dread:
  "Where may our mariners be?"
But the brooding fog lay soft as down
  Over the quiet sea.

A Scottish schooner made the port,
  The thirteenth day at e'en;
"As I am a man," the captain cried,
  "A strange sight I have seen:

"And a strange sound heard, my masters all,
  At sea, in the fog and the rain,
Like shipwrights' hammers tapping low,
  Then loud, then low again.

"And a stately house one instant showed,
  Through a rift, on the vessel's lee;
What manner of creatures may be those
  That build upon the sea?"

Then sighed the folk, "The Lord be praised!"
  And they flocked to the shore amain;
All over the Hoe that livelong night,
  Many stood out in the rain.

It ceased, and the red sun reared his head,
  And the rolling fog did flee;
And, lo! in the offing faint and far
  Winstanley's house at sea!

In fair weather with mirth and cheer
  The stately tower uprose;
In foul weather, with hunger and cold,
  They were content to close;

Till up the stair Winstanley went,
  To fire the wick afar;
And Plymouth in the silent night
  Looked out, and saw her star.

Winstanley set his foot ashore;
  Said he, "My work is done;
I hold it strong to last as long
  As aught beneath the sun.

"But if it fail, as fail it may,
  Borne down with ruin and rout,
Another than I shall rear it high,
  And brace the girders stout.

"A better than I shall rear it high,
  For now the way is plain,
And tho' I were dead," Winstanley said,
  "The light would shine again.

"Yet, were I fain still to remain,
  Watch in my tower to keep,
And tend my light in the stormiest night
  That ever did move the deep;

"And if it stood, why then 'twere good,
  Amid their tremulous stirs,
To count each stroke when the mad waves broke,
  For cheers of mariners.

"But if it fell, then this were well,
  That I should with it fall;
Since, for my part, I have built my heart
  In the courses of its wall.

"Ay! I were fain, long to remain,
  Watch in my tower to keep,
And tend my light in the stormiest night
  That ever did move the deep."

With that Winstanley went his way,
  And left the rock renowned,
And summer and winter his pilot star
  Hung bright o'er Plymouth Sound.

But it fell out, fell out at last,
  That he would put to sea,
To scan once more his lighthouse tower
  On the rock o' destiny.

And the winds woke, and the storm broke,
  And wrecks came plunging in;
None in the town that night lay down
  Or sleep or rest to win.

The great mad waves were rolling graves,
  And each flung up its dead;
The seething flow was white below,
  And black the sky o'erhead.

And when the dawn, the dull, gray dawn,--
  Broke on the trembling town,
And men looked south to the harbor mouth,
  The lighthouse tower was down.

Down in the deep where he doth sleep,
  Who made it shine afar,
And then in the night that drowned its light,
  Set, with his pilot star.

_Many fair tombs in the glorious glooms
  At Westminster they show;
The brave and the great lie there in state:
  Winstanley lieth low.




APRIL IN THE HILLS


    To-day the world is wide and fair
    With sunny fields of lucid air,
    And waters dancing everywhere;
      The snow is almost gone;
    The noon is builded high with light,
    And over heaven's liquid height,
    In steady fleets serene and white,
      The happy clouds go on.

    The channels run, the bare earth steams,
    And every hollow rings and gleams
    With jetting falls and dashing streams;
      The rivers burst and fill;
    The fields are full of little lakes,
    And when the romping wind awakes
    The water ruffles blue and shakes,
      And the pines roar on the hill.

    The crows go by, a noisy throng;
    About the meadows all day long
    The shore-lark drops his brittle song;
      And up the leafless tree
    The nut-hatch runs, and nods, and clings;
    The bluebird dips with flashing wings,
    The robin flutes, the sparrow sings,
      And the swallows float and flee.

    I break the spirit's cloudy bands,
    A wanderer in enchanted lands,
    I feel the sun upon my hands;
      And far from care and strife
    The broad earth bids me forth. I rise
    With lifted brow and upward eyes.
    I bathe my spirit in blue skies,
      And taste the springs of life.

    I feel the tumult of new birth;
    I waken with the wakening earth;
    I match the bluebird in her mirth;
      And wild with wind and sun,
    A treasurer of immortal days,
    I roam the glorious world with praise,
    The hillsides and the woodland ways,
      Till earth and I are one.




FOREST MOODS


    There is singing of birds in the deep wet woods,
    In the heart of the listening solitudes,
    Pewees, and thrushes, and sparrows, not few,
    And all the notes of their throats are true.

    The thrush from the innermost ash takes on
    A tender dream of the treasured and gone;
    But the sparrow singeth with pride and cheer
    Of the might and light of the present and here.

    There is shining of flowers in the deep wet woods,
    In the heart of the sensitive solitudes,
    The roseate bell and the lily are there,
    And every leaf of their sheaf is fair.

    Careless and bold, without dream of woe,
    The trilliums scatter their flags snow;
    But the pale wood-daffodil covers her face,
    Agloom with the doom of a sorrowful race.




THE RETURN OF THE YEAR


    Again the warm bare earth, the noon
      That hangs upon her healing scars,
    The midnight round, the great red moon,
      The mother with her brood of stars,

    The mist-rack and the wakening rain
      Blown soft in many a forest way,
    The yellowing elm-trees, and again
      The blood-root in its sheath of gray.

    The vesper-sparrow's song, the stress
      Of yearning notes that gush and stream,
    The lyric joy, the tenderness,
      And once again the dream! the dream!

    A touch of far-off joy and power,
      A something it is life to learn,
    Comes back to earth, and one short hour
      The glamours of the gods return.

    This life's old mood and cult of care
      Falls smitten by an older truth,
    And the gray world wins back to her
      The rapture of her vanished youth.

    Dead thoughts revive, and he that heeds
      Shall hear, as by a spirit led,
    A song among the golden reeds:
      "The gods are vanished but not dead!"

    For one short hour; unseen yet near,
      They haunt us, a forgotten mood,
    A glory upon mead and mere,
      A magic in the leafless wood.

    At morning we shall catch the glow
      Of Dian's quiver on the hill,
    And somewhere in the glades I know
      That Pan is at his piping still.




FAVORITES OF PAN


    Once, long ago, before the gods
      Had left this earth, by stream and forest glade,
    Where the first plough upturned the clinging sods,
      Or the lost shepherd strayed,

    Often to the tired listener's ear
      There came at noonday or beneath the stars
    A sound, he knew not whence, so sweet and clear,
      That all his aches and scars

    And every brooded bitterness,
      Fallen asunder from his soul took flight,
    Like mist or darkness yielding to the press
      Of an unnamed delight,--

    A sudden brightness of the heart,
      A magic fire drawn down from Paradise,
    That rent the cloud with golden gleam apart,--
      And far before his eyes

    The loveliness and calm of earth
      Lay like a limitless dream remote and strange,
    The joy, the strife, the triumph and the mirth,
      And the enchanted change;

    And so he followed the sweet sound,
      Till faith had traversed her appointed span,
    And murmured as he pressed the sacred ground:
      "It is the note of Pan!"

    Now though no more by marsh or stream
      Or dewy forest sounds the secret reed--
    For Pan is gone--Ah yet, the infinite dream
      Still lives for them that heed.

    In April, when the turning year
      Regains its pensive youth, and a soft breath
    And amorous influence over marsh and mere
      Dissolves the grasp of death,

    To them that are in love with life,
      Wandering like children with untroubled eyes,
    Far from the noise of cities and the strife,
      Strange flute-like voices rise

    At noon and in the quiet of the night
      From every watery waste; and in that hour
    The same strange spell, the same unnamed delight,
      Enfolds them in its power.

    An old-world joyousness supreme,
      The warmth and glow of an immortal balm,
    The mood-touch of the gods, the endless dream,
      The high lethean calm.

    They see, wide on the eternal way,
      The services of earth, the life of man;
    And, listening to the magic cry they say:
      "It is the note of Pan!"

    For, long ago, when the new strains
      Of hostile hymns and conquering faiths grew keen,
    And the old gods from their deserted fanes,
      Fled silent and unseen,

    So, too, the goat-foot Pan, not less
      Sadly obedient to the mightier hand,
    Cut him new reeds, and in a sore distress
      Passed out from land to land;

    And lingering by each haunt he knew,
      Of fount or sinuous stream or grassy marge,
    He set the syrinx to his lips, and blew
      A note divinely large;

    And all around him on the wet
      Cool earth the frogs came up, and with a smile
    He took them in his hairy hands, and set
      His mouth to theirs awhile,

    And blew into their velvet throats;
      And ever from that hour the frogs repeat
    The murmur of Pan's pipes, the notes,
      And answers strange and sweet;

    And they that hear them are renewed
      By knowledge in some god-like touch conveyed,
    Entering again into the eternal mood,
      Wherein the world was made.






IN MAY


    Grief was my master yesternight;
        To-morrow I may grieve again;
        But now along the windy plain
          The clouds have taken flight.

    The sowers in the furrows go;
        The lusty river brimmeth on;
        The curtains from the hills are gone;
          The leaves are out; and lo,

    The silvery distance of the day,
        The light horizons, and between
        The glory of the perfect green,
          The tumult of the May.

    The bobolinks at noonday sing
        More softly than the softest flute,
        And lightlier than the lightest lute
          Their fairy tambours ring.

    The roads far off are towered with dust;
        The cherry-blooms are swept and thinned;
        In yonder swaying elms the wind
          Is charging gust on gust.

    But here there is no stir at all;
        The ministers of sun and shadow
        Horde all the perfumes of the meadow
          Behind a grassy wall.

    An infant rivulet wind-free
        Adown the guarded hollow sets,
        Over whose brink the violets
          Are nodding peacefully.

    From pool to pool it prattles by;
        The flashing swallows dip and pass,
        Above the tufted marish grass,
          And here at rest am I.

    I care not for the old distress,
        Nor if to-morrow bid me moan;
        To-day is mine, and I have known
          An hour of blessedness.




LIFE AND NATURE


    I passed through the gates of the city,
      The streets were strange and still,
    Through the doors of the open churches
      The organs were moaning shrill.

    Through the doors and the great high windows
      I heard the murmur of prayer,
    And the sound of their solemn singing
      Streamed out on the sunlit air;

    A sound of some great burden
      That lay on the world's dark breast,
    Of the old, and the sick, and the lonely,
      And the weary that cried for rest.

    I strayed through the midst of the city
      Like one distracted or mad.
    "Oh, Life! Oh, Life!" I kept saying,
      And the very word seemed sad.

    I passed through the gates of the city,
      And I heard the small birds sing,
    I laid me down in the meadows
      Afar from the bell-ringing.

    In the depth and the bloom of the meadows
      I lay on the earth's quiet breast,
    The poplar fanned me with shadows,
      And the veery sang me to rest.

    Blue, blue was the heaven above me,
      And the earth green at my feet;
    "Oh, Life! Oh, Life!" I kept saying,
      And the very word seemed sweet.




WITH THE NIGHT


    O doubts, dull passions, and base fears,
      That harassed and oppressed the day,
    Ye poor remorses and vain tears,
      That shook this house of clay:

    All heaven to the western bars
      Is glittering with the darker dawn;
    Here with the earth, the night, the stars,
      Ye have no place: begone!





DISTANCE


    To the distance! Ah, the distance!
        Blue and broad and dim!
    Peace is not in burgh or meadow,
        But beyond the rim.

    Aye, beyond it, far beyond it;
        Follow still my soul,
    Till this earth is lost in heaven,
        And thou feel'st the whole.




THE BIRD AND THE HOUR


    The sun looks over a little hill
      And floods the valley with gold--
            A torrent of gold;
    And the hither field is green and still;
      Beyond it a cloud outrolled,
      Is glowing molten and bright;
    And soon the hill, and the valley and all,
            With a quiet fall,
      Shall be gathered into the night.
      And yet a moment more,
            Out of the silent wood,
      As if from the closing door
    Of another world and another lovelier mood,
      Hear'st thou the hermit pour--
            So sweet! so magical!--
    His golden music, ghostly beautiful.




AFTER RAIN


    For three whole days across the sky,
    In sullen packs that loomed and broke,
    With flying fringes dim as smoke,
    The columns of the rain went by;
    At every hour the wind awoke;
        The darkness passed upon the plain;
        The great drops rattled at the pane.

    Now piped the wind, or far aloof
    Fell to a sough remote and dull;
    And all night long with rush and lull
    The rain kept drumming on the roof:
    I heard till ear and sense were full
        The clash or silence of the leaves,
        The gurgle in the creaking eaves.

    But when the fourth day came--at noon,
    The darkness and the rain were by;
    The sunward roofs were steaming dry;
    And all the world was flecked and strewn
    With shadows from a fleecy sky.
        The haymakers were forth and gone,
        And every rillet laughed and shone.

    Then, too, on me that loved so well
    The world, despairing in her blight,
    Uplifted with her least delight,
    On me, as on the earth, there fell
    New happiness of mirth and might;
        I strode the valleys pied and still;
        I climbed upon the breezy hill.

    I watched the gray hawk wheel and drop,
    Sole shadow on the shining world;
    I saw the mountains clothed and curled,
    With forest ruffling to the top;
    I saw the river's length unfurled,
        Pale silver down the fruited plain,
        Grown great and stately with the rain.

    Through miles of shadow and soft heat,
    Where field and fallow, fence and tree,
    Were all one world of greenery,
    I heard the robin ringing sweet,
    The sparrow piping silverly,
        The thrushes at the forest's hem;
        And as I went I sang with them.




CLOUD-BREAK


    With a turn of his magical rod,
    That extended and suddenly shone,
    From the round of his glory some god
    Looks forth and is gone.

    To the summit of heaven the clouds
    Are rolling aloft like steam;
    There's a break in their infinite shrouds,
    And below it a gleam.
    O'er the drift of the river a whiff
    Comes out from the blossoming shore;
    And the meadows are greening, as if
    They never were green before.

    The islands are kindled with gold
    And russet and emerald dye;
    And the interval waters outrolled
    Are more blue than the sky.
    From my feet to the heart of the hills
    The spirits of May intervene,
    And a vapor of azure distills
    Like a breath on the opaline green.

    Only a moment!--and then
    The chill and the shadow decline,
    On the eyes of rejuvenate men
    That were wide and divine.




THE MOON-PATH


    The full, clear moon uprose and spread
      Her cold, pale splendor o'er the sea;
    A light-strewn path that seemed to lead
      Outward into eternity.
    Between the darkness and the gleam
      An old-world spell encompassed me:
    Methought that in a godlike dream
      I trod upon the sea.

    And lo! upon that glimmering road,
      In shining companies unfurled,
    The trains of many a primal god,
      The monsters of the elder world;
    Strange creatures that, with silver wings,
      Scarce touched the ocean's thronging floor,
    The phantoms of old tales, and things
      Whose shapes are known no more.

    Giants and demi-gods who once
      Were dwellers of the earth and sea,
    And they who from Deucalion's stones,
      Rose men without an infancy;
    Beings on whose majestic lids
      Time's solemn secrets seemed to dwell,
    Tritons and pale-limbed Nereids,
      And forms of heaven and hell.

    Some who were heroes long of yore,
      When the great world was hale and young;
    And some whose marble lips yet pour
      The murmur of an antique tongue;
    Sad queens, whose names are like soft moans,
      Whose griefs were written up in gold;
    And some who on their silver thrones
      Were goddesses of old.

    As if I had been dead indeed,
      And come into some after-land,
    I saw them pass me, and take heed,
      And touch me with each mighty hand;
    And evermore a murmurous stream,
      So beautiful they seemed to me,
    Not less than in a godlike dream
      I trod the shining sea.





AT THE FERRY


    On such a day the shrunken stream
      Spends its last water and runs dry;
    Clouds like far turrets in a dream
      Stand baseless in the burning sky.
    On such a day at every rod
      The toilers in the hay-field halt,
    With dripping brows, and the parched sod
      Yields to the crushing foot like salt.

    But here a little wind astir,
      Seen waterward in jetting lines,
    From yonder hillside topped with fir
      Comes pungent with the breath of pines;
    And here when all the noon hangs still,
      White-hot upon the city tiles,
    A perfume and a wintry chill
      Breathe from the yellow lumber-piles.

    And all day long there falls a blur
      Of noises upon listless ears,
    The rumble of the trams, the stir
      Of barges at the clacking piers;
    The champ of wheels, the crash of steam,
      And ever, without change or stay,
    The drone, as through a troubled dream,
      Of waters falling far away.

    A tug-boat up the farther shore
      Half pants, half whistles, in her draught;
    The cadence of a creaking oar
      Falls drowsily; a corded raft
    Creeps slowly in the noonday gleam,
      And wheresoe'er a shadow sleeps
    The men lie by, or half a-dream,
      Stand leaning at the idle sweeps.

    And all day long in the quiet bay
      The eddying amber depths retard,
    And hold, as in a ring, at play,
      The heavy saw-logs notched and scarred;
    And yonder between cape and shoal,
      Where the long currents swing and shift,
    An aged punt-man with his pole
      Is searching in the parted drift.

    At moments from the distant glare
      The murmur of a railway steals
    Round yonder jutting point the air
      Is beaten with the puff of wheels;
    And here at hand an open mill,
      Strong clamor at perpetual drive,
    With changing chant, now hoarse, now shrill,
      Keeps dinning like a mighty hive.

    A furnace over field and mead,
      The rounding noon hangs hard and white;
    Into the gathering heats recede
      The hollows of the Chelsea height;
    But under all to one quiet tune,
      A spirit in cool depths withdrawn,
    With logs, and dust, and wrack bestrewn,
      The stately river journeys on.

    I watch the swinging currents go
      Far down to where, enclosed and piled,
    The logs crowd, and the Gatineau
      Comes rushing from the northern wild.
    I see the long low point, where close
      The shore-lines, and the waters end,
    I watch the barges pass in rows
      That vanish at the tapering bend.

    I see as at the noon's pale core--
      A shadow that lifts clear and floats--
    The cabin'd village round the shore,
      The landing and the fringe of boats;
    Faint films of smoke that curl and wreathe,
      And upward with the like desire
    The vast gray church that seems to breathe
      In heaven with its dreaming spire.

    And there the last blue boundaries rise,
      That guard within their compass furled
    This plot of earth: beyond them lies
      The mystery of the echoing world;
    And still my thought goes on, and yields
      New vision and new joy to me,
    Far peopled hills, and ancient fields,
      And cities by the crested sea.

    I see no more the barges pass,
      Nor mark the ripple round the pier,
    And all the uproar, mass on mass,
      Falls dead upon a vacant ear.
    Beyond the tumult of the mills,
      And all the city's sound and strife,
    Beyond the waste, beyond the hills,
      I look far out and dream of life.






A RE-ASSURANCE


    With what doubting eyes, oh sparrow,
        Thou regardest me,
    Underneath yon spray of yarrow,
        Dipping cautiously.

    Fear me not, oh little sparrow,
        Bathe and never fear,
    For to me both pool and yarrow
        And thyself are dear.




THE POET'S POSSESSION


    Think not, oh master of the well-tilled field,
    This earth is only thine; for after thee,
    When all is sown and gathered and put by,
    Comes the grave poet with creative eye,
    And from these silent acres and clean plots,
    Bids with his wand the fancied after-yield,
    A second tilth and second harvest, be,
    The crop of images and curious thoughts.




AN AUTUMN LANDSCAPE


    No wind there is that either pipes or moans;
      The fields are cold and still; the sky
        Is covered with a blue-gray sheet
        Of motionless cloud; and at my feet
      The river, curling softly by,
    Whispers and dimples round its quiet gray stones.

    Along the chill green slope that dips and heaves
      The road runs rough and silent, lined
        With plum-trees, misty and blue-gray,
        And poplars pallid as the day,
      In masses spectral, undefined,
    Pale greenish stems half hid in dry gray leaves.

    And on beside the river's sober edge
      A long fresh field lies black. Beyond,
        Low thickets gray and reddish stand,
        Stroked white with birch; and near at hand,
      Over a little steel-smooth pond,
    Hang multitudes of thin and withering sedge.

    Across a waste and solitary rise
      A ploughman urges his dull team,
        A stooped gray figure with prone brow
        That plunges bending to the plough
      With strong, uneven steps. The stream
    Rings and re-echoes with his furious cries.

    Sometimes the lowing of a cow, long-drawn,
      Comes from far off; and crows in strings
        Pass on the upper silences.
        A flock of small gray goldfinches,
      Flown down with silvery twitterings,
    Rustle among the birch-cones and are gone.

    This day the season seems like one that heeds,
      With fixèd ear and lifted hand,
        All moods that yet are known on earth,
        All motions that have faintest birth,
      If haply she may understand
    The utmost inward sense of all her deeds.




BY AN AUTUMN STREAM


    Now overhead,
    Where the rivulet loiters and stops,
    The bittersweet hangs from the tops
    Of the alders and cherries
    Its bunches of beautiful berries,
    Orange and red.

    And the snowbirds flee,
    Tossing up on the far brown field,
    Now flashing and now concealed,
    Like fringes of spray
    That vanish and gleam on the gray
    Field of the sea.

    Flickering light,
    Come the last of the leaves down borne,
    And patches of pale white corn
    In the wind complain,
    Like the slow rustle of rain
    Noticed by night.

    Withered and thinned,
    The sentinel mullein looms,
    With the pale gray shadowy plumes
    Of the goldenrod;
    And the milkweed opens its pod,
    Tempting the wind.

    Aloft on the hill,
    A cloudrift opens and shines
    Through a break in its gorget of pines,
    And it dreams at my feet
    In a sad, silvery sheet,
    Utterly still.

    All things that be
    Seem plunged into silence, distraught,
    By some stern, some necessitous thought:
    It wraps and enthralls
    Marsh, meadow, and forest; and falls
    Also on me.




SNOWBIRDS


    Along the narrow sandy height
      I watch them swiftly come and go,
        Or round the leafless wood,
      Like flurries of wind-driven snow,
    Revolving in perpetual flight,
        A changing multitude.

    Nearer and nearer still they sway,
      And, scattering in a circled sweep,
        Rush down without a sound;
      And now I see them peer and peep,
    Across yon level bleak and gray,
        Searching the frozen ground,--

    Until a little wind upheaves,
      And makes a sudden rustling there,
        And then they drop their play,
      Flash up into the sunless air,
    And like a flight of silver leaves
        Swirl round and sweep away.




SNOW


    White are the far-off plains, and white
        The fading forests grow;
    The wind dies out along the height,
        And denser still the snow,
    A gathering weight on roof and tree,
        Falls down scarce audibly.

    The road before me smooths and fills
        Apace, and all about
    The fences dwindle, and the hills
        Are blotted slowly out;
    The naked trees loom spectrally
        Into the dim white sky.

    The meadows and far-sheeted streams
        Lie still without a sound;
    Like some soft minister of dreams
        The snow-fall hoods me round;
    In wood and water, earth and air,
        A silence everywhere.

    Save when at lonely intervals
        Some farmer's sleigh, urged on,
    With rustling runners and sharp bells,
        Swings by me and is gone;
    Or from the empty waste I hear
        A sound remote and clear;

    The barking of a dog, or call
        To cattle, sharply pealed,
    Borne echoing from some wayside stall
        Or barnyard far a-field;
    Then all is silent, and the snow
        Falls, settling soft and slow.

    The evening deepens, and the gray
        Folds closer earth and sky;
    The world seems shrouded far away;
        Its noises sleep, and I,
    As secret as yon buried stream,
        Plod dumbly on, and dream.




SUNSET


    From this windy bridge at rest,
    In some former curious hour,
    We have watched the city's hue,
    All along the orange west,
    Cupola and pointed tower,
    Darken into solid blue.

    Tho' the biting north wind breaks
    Full across this drifted hold,
    Let us stand with icèd cheeks
    Watching westward as of old;

    Past the violet mountain-head
    To the farthest fringe of pine,
    Where far off the purple-red
    Narrows to a dusky line,
    And the last pale splendors die
    Slowly from the olive sky;

    Till the thin clouds wear away
    Into threads of purple-gray,
    And the sudden stars between
    Brighten in the pallid green;

    Till above the spacious east,
    Slow returnèd one by one,
    Like pale prisoners released
    From the dungeons of the sun,
    Capella and her train appear
    In the glittering Charioteer;

    Till the rounded moon shall grow
    Great above the eastern snow,
    Shining into burnished gold;
    And the silver earth outrolled,
    In the misty yellow light,
    Shall take on the width of night.




WINTER-STORE


    Subtly conscious, all awake,
    Let us clear our eyes, and break
    Through the cloudy chrysalis,
    See the wonder as it is.
    Down a narrow alley, blind,
    Touch and vision, heart and mind;
    Turned sharply inward, still we plod,
    Till the calmly smiling god
    Leaves us, and our spirits grow
    More thin, more acrid, as we go.
    Creeping by the sullen wall,
    We forego the power to see,
    The threads that bind us to the All,
    God or the Immensity;
    Whereof on the eternal road
    Man is but a passing mode.

    Too blind we are, too little see
    Of the magic pageantry,
    Every minute, every hour,
    From the cloudflake to the flower,
    Forever old, forever strange,
    Issuing in perpetual change
    From the rainbow gates of Time.

    But he who through this common air
    Surely knows the great and fair,
    What is lovely, what sublime,
    Becomes in an increasing span,
    One with earth and one with man,
    One, despite these mortal scars,
    With the planets and the stars;
    And Nature from her holy place,
    Bending with unveilèd face,
    Fills him in her divine employ
    With her own majestic joy.

    Up the fielded slopes at morn,
    Where light wefts of shadow pass,
    Films upon the bending corn,
    I shall sweep the purple grass.
    Sun-crowned heights and mossy woods,
    And the outer solitudes,
    Mountain-valleys, dim with pine,
    Shall be home and haunt of mine.
    I shall search in crannied hollows,
    Where the sunlight scarcely follows,
    And the secret forest brook
    Murmurs, and from nook to nook
    Forever downward curls and cools,
    Frothing in the bouldered pools.

    Many a noon shall find me laid
    In the pungent balsam shade,
    Where sharp breezes spring and shiver
    On some deep rough-coasted river,
    And the plangent waters come,
    Amber-hued and streaked with foam;
    Where beneath the sunburnt hills
    All day long the crowded mills
    With remorseless champ and scream
    Overlord the sluicing stream,
    And the rapids' iron roar
    Hammers at the forest's core;
    Where corded rafts creep slowly on,
    Glittering in the noonday sun,
    And the tawny river-dogs,
    Shepherding the branded logs,
    Bind and heave with cadenced cry;
    Where the blackened tugs go by,
    Panting hard and straining slow,
    Laboring at the weighty tow,
    Flat-nosed barges all in trim,
    Creeping in long cumbrous line,
    Loaded to the water's brim
    With the clean, cool-scented pine.

    Perhaps in some low meadow-land,
    Stretching wide on either hand,
    I shall see the belted bees
    Rocking with the tricksy breeze
    In the spirèd meadow-sweet,
    Or with eager trampling feet
    Burrowing in the boneset blooms,
    Treading out the dry perfumes.
    Where sun-hot hay-fields newly mown
    Climb the hillside ruddy brown,
    I shall see the haymakers,
    While the noonday scarcely stirs,
    Brown of neck and booted gray,
    Tossing up the rustling hay,
    While the hay-racks bend and rock,
    As they take each scented cock,
    Jolting over dip and rise;
    And the wavering butterflies
    O'er the spaces brown and bare
    Light and wander here and there.

    I shall stray by many a stream,
    Where the half-shut lilies gleam.
    Napping out the sultry days
    In the quiet secluded bays;
    Where the tasseled rushes tower,
    O'er the purple pickerel-flower.
    And the floating dragon-fly--
    Azure glint and crystal gleam--
    Watches o'er the burnished stream
    With his eye of ebony;
    Where the bull-frog lolls at rest
    On his float of lily-leaves,
    That the swaying water weaves,
    And distends his yellow breast,
    Lowing out from shore to shore
    With a hollow vibrant roar;
    Where the softest wind that blows
    As it lightly comes and goes,
    O'er the jungled river meads,
    Stirs a whisper in the reeds,
    And wakes the crowded bull-rushes
    From their stately reveries,
    Flashing through their long-leaved hordes
    Like a brandishing of swords;
    There, too, the frost-like arrow-flowers
    Tremble to the golden core,
    Children of enchanted hours,
    Whom the rustling river bore
    In the night's bewildered noon,
    Woven of water and the moon.

    I shall hear the grasshoppers
    From the parched grass rehearse,
    And with drowsy note prolong
    Evermore the same thin song.
    I shall hear the crickets tell
    Stories by the humming well,
    And mark the locust, with quaint eyes,
    Caper in his cloak of gray
    Like a jester in disguise
    Rattling by the dusty way.

    I shall dream by upland fences,
    Where the season's wealth condenses
    Over many a weedy wreck,
    Wild, uncared-for, desert places,
    That sovereign Beauty loves to deck
    With her softest, dearest graces.
    There the long year dreams in quiet,
    And the summer's strength runs riot.
    Shall I not remember these,
    Deep in winter reveries?
    Berried brier and thistle-bloom,
    And milkweed with its dense perfume;
    Slender vervain towering up
    In a many-branchèd cup,
    Like a candlestick, each spire
    Kindled with a violet fire;
    Matted creepers and wild cherries,
    Purple-bunchèd elderberries,
    And on scanty plots of sod
    Groves of branchy goldenrod.

    What though autumn mornings now,
    Winterward with glittering brow,
    Stiffen in the silver grass;
    And what though robins flock and pass,
    With subdued and sober call,
    To the old year's funeral;
    Though October's crimson leaves
    Rustle at the gusty door,
    And the tempest round the eaves
    Alternate with pipe and roar;
    I sit, as erst, unharmed, secure,
    Conscious that my store is sure,
    Whatsoe'er the fencèd fields,
    Or the untilled forest yields
    Of unhurt remembrances,
    Or thoughts, far-glimpsed, half-followed, these
    I have reaped and laid away,
    A treasure of unwinnowed grain,
    To the garner packed and gray
    Gathered without toil or strain.

    And when the darker days shall come,
    And the fields are white and dumb;
    When our fires are half in vain,
    And the crystal starlight weaves
    Mockeries of summer leaves,
    Pictured on the icy pane;
    When the high aurora gleams
    Far above the Arctic streams
    Like a line of shifting spears,
    And the broad pine-circled meres,
    Glimmering in that spectral light,
    Thunder through the northern night;
    Then within the bolted door
    I shall con my summer store;
    Though the fences scarcely show
    Black above the drifted snow,
    Though the icy sweeping wind
    Whistle in the empty tree,
    Safe within the sheltered mind,
    I shall feed on memory.

    Yet across the windy night
    Comes upon its wings a cry;
    Fashioned forms and modes take flight,
    And a vision sad and high
    Of the laboring world down there,
    Where the lights burn red and warm,
    Pricks my soul with sudden stare,
    Glowing through the veils of storm.
    In the city yonder sleep
    Those who smile and those who weep,
    Those whose lips are set with care,
    Those whose brows are smooth and fair;
    Mourners whom the dawning light
    Shall grapple with an old distress;
    Lovers folded at midnight
    In their bridal happiness;
    Pale watchers by belovèd beds,
    Fallen a-drowse with nodding heads,
    Whom sleep captured by surprise,
    With the circles round their eyes;
    Maidens with quiet-taken breath,
    Dreaming of enchanted bowers;
    Old men with the mask of death;
    Little children soft as flowers;
    Those who wake wild-eyed and start
    In some madness of the heart;
    Those whose lips and brows of stone
    Evil thoughts have graven upon,
    Shade by shade and line by line,
    Refashioning what was once divine.

    All these sleep, and through the night,
    Comes a passion and a cry,
    With a blind sorrow and a might,
    I know not whence, I know not why,
    A something I cannot control,
    A nameless hunger of the soul.
    It holds me fast. In vain, in vain,
    I remember how of old
    I saw the ruddy race of men,
    Through the glittering world outrolled,
    A gay-smiling multitude,
    All immortal, all divine,
    Treading in a wreathèd line
    By a pathway through a wood.




THE SUN CUP


    The earth is the cup of the sun,
    That he filleth at morning with wine,
    With the warm, strong wine of his might
    From the vintage of gold and of light,
    Fills it, and makes it divine.

    And at night when his journey is done,
    At the gate of his radiant hall,
    He setteth his lips to the brim,
    With a long last look of his eye,
    And lifts it and draineth it dry,
    Drains till he leaveth it all
    Empty and hollow and dim.

    And then, as he passes to sleep,
    Still full of the feats that he did,
    Long ago in Olympian wars,
    He closes it down with the sweep
    Of its slow-turning luminous lid,
    Its cover of darkness and stars,
    Wrought once by Hephæstus of old
    With violet and vastness and gold.








                                        
        A Child's Garden Of Verses

For the long nights you lay awake
And watched for my unworthy sake:
For your most comfortable hand
That led me through the uneven land:
For all the story-books you read:
For all the pains you comforted:


For all you pitied, all you bore,
In sad and happy days of yore:-
My second Mother, my first Wife,
The angel of my infant life-
From the sick child, now well and old,
Take, nurse, the little book you hold!


And grant it, Heaven, that all who read
May find as dear a nurse at need,
And every child who lists my rhyme,
In the bright, fireside, nursery clime,
May hear it in as kind a voice
As made my childish days rejoice!








        A Good Boy

I woke before the morning, I was happy all the day,
I never said an ugly word, but smiled and stuck to play.


And now at last the sun is going down behind the wood,
And I am very happy, for I know that I've been good.


My bed is waiting cool and fresh, with linen smooth and fair,
And I must be off to sleepsin-by, and not forget my prayer.


I know that, till to-morrow I shall see the sun arise,
No ugly dream shall fright my mind, no ugly sight my eyes.


But slumber hold me tightly till I waken in the dawn,
And hear the thrushes singing in the lilacs round the lawn.







                    
        A Good Play

We built a ship upon the stairs
All made of the back-bedroom chairs,
And filled it full of soft pillows
To go a-sailing on the billows.


We took a saw and several nails,
And water in the nursery pails;
And Tom said, "Let us also take
An apple and a slice of cake;"--
Which was enough for Tom and me
To go a-sailing on, till tea.


We sailed along for days and days,
And had the very best of plays;
But Tom fell out and hurt his knee,
So there was no one left but me.








        A Thought

It is very nice to think
The world is full of meat and drink,
With little children saying grace
In every Christian kind of place.








        A Valentine's Song

MOTLEY I count the only wear
That suits, in this mixed world, the truly wise,
Who boldly smile upon despair
And shake their bells in Grandam Grundy's eyes.
Singers should sing with such a goodly cheer
That the bare listening should make strong like wine,
At this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.


We do not now parade our "oughts"
And "shoulds" and motives and beliefs in God.
Their life lies all indoors; sad thoughts
Must keep the house, while gay thoughts go abroad,
Within we hold the wake for hopes deceased;
But in the public streets, in wind or sun,
Keep open, at the annual feast,
The puppet-booth of fun.


Our powers, perhaps, are small to please,
But even negro-songs and castanettes,
Old jokes and hackneyed repartees
Are more than the parade of vain regrets.
Let Jacques stand Wert(h)ering by the wounded deer -
We shall make merry, honest friends of mine,
At this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.


I know how, day by weary day,
Hope fades, love fades, a thousand pleasures fade.
I have not trudged in vain that way
On which life's daylight darkens, shade by shade.
And still, with hopes decreasing, griefs increased,
Still, with what wit I have shall I, for one,
Keep open, at the annual feast,
The puppet-booth of fun.


I care not if the wit be poor,
The old worn motley stained with rain and tears,
If but the courage still endure


            
        That filled and strengthened hope in earlier years;
If still, with friends averted, fate severe,
A glad, untainted cheerfulness be mine
To greet the unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.


Priest, I am none of thine, and see
In the perspective of still hopeful youth
That Truth shall triumph over thee -
Truth to one's self - I know no other truth.
I see strange days for thee and thine, O priest,
And how your doctrines, fallen one by one,
Shall furnish at the annual feast
The puppet-booth of fun.


Stand on your putrid ruins - stand,
White neck-clothed bigot, fixedly the same,
Cruel with all things but the hand,
Inquisitor in all things but the name.
Back, minister of Christ and source of fear -
We cherish freedom - back with thee and thine
From this unruly time of year,
The Feast of Valentine.


Blood thou mayest spare; but what of tears?
But what of riven households, broken faith -
Bywords that cling through all men's years
And drag them surely down to shame and death?
Stand back, O cruel man, O foe of youth,
And let such men as hearken not thy voice
Press freely up the road to truth,
The King's highway of choice.







        
        About The Sheltered Garden Ground

ABOUT the sheltered garden ground
The trees stand strangely still.
The vale ne'er seemed so deep before,
Nor yet so high the hill.


An awful sense of quietness,
A fulness of repose,
Breathes from the dewy garden-lawns,
The silent garden rows.


As the hoof-beats of a troop of horse
Heard far across a plain,
A nearer knowledge of great thoughts
Thrills vaguely through my brain.


I lean my head upon my arm,
My heart's too full to think;
Like the roar of seas, upon my heart
Doth the morning stillness sink.








        Ad Magistrum Ludi

NOW in the sky
And on the hearth of
Now in a drawer the direful cane,
That sceptre of the . . . reign,
And the long hawser, that on the back
Of Marsyas fell with many a whack,
Twice hardened out of Scythian hides,
Now sleep till the October ides.


In summer if the boys be well.








        Ad Martialem

GO(D) knows, my Martial, if we two could be
To enjoy our days set wholly free;
To the true life together bend our mind,
And take a furlough from the falser kind.
No rich saloon, nor palace of the great,
Nor suit at law should trouble our estate;
On no vainglorious statues should we look,
But of a walk, a talk, a little book,
Baths, wells and meads, and the veranda shade,
Let all our travels and our toils be made.
Now neither lives unto himself, alas!
And the good suns we see, that flash and pass
And perish; and the bell that knells them cries:
"Another gone: O when will ye arise?"







    
        Ad Nepotem

O NEPOS, twice my neigh(b)our (since at home
We're door by door, by Flora's temple dome;
And in the country, still conjoined by fate,
Behold our villas standing gate by gate),
Thou hast a daughter, dearer far than life -
Thy image and the image of thy wife.
Thy image and thy wife's, and be it so!


But why for her, { neglect the flowing } can
            { O Nepos, leave the }


And lose the prime of thy Falernian?
Hoard casks of money, if to hoard be thine;
But let thy daughter drink a younger wine!
Let her go rich and wise, in silk and fur;


Lay down a { bin that shall } grow old with her;
        { vintage to }


But thou, meantime, the while the batch is sound,
With pleased companions pass the bowl around;
Nor let the childless only taste delights,
For Fathers also may enjoy their nights.







        
        Ad Olum

CALL me not rebel, though { here at every word
                    {in what I sing
If I no longer hail thee { King and Lord
                    { Lord and King
I have redeemed myself with all I had,
And now possess my fortunes poor but glad.
With all I had I have redeemed myself,
And escaped at once from slavery and pelf.
The unruly wishes must a ruler take,
Our high desires do our low fortunes make:
Those only who desire palatial things
Do bear the fetters and the frowns of Kings;
Set free thy slave; thou settest free thyself.







    
        Ad Piscatorem

FOR these are sacred fishes all
Who know that lord that is the lord of all;
Come to the brim and nose the friendly hand
That sways and can beshadow all the land.
Nor only so, but have their names, and come
When they are summoned by the Lord of Rome.
Here once his line an impious Lybian threw;
And as with tremulous reed his prey he drew,
Straight, the light failed him.
He groped, nor found the prey that he had ta'en.
Now as a warning to the fisher clan
Beside the lake he sits, a beggarman.
Thou, then, while still thine innocence is pure,
Flee swiftly, nor presume to set thy lure;
Respect these fishes, for their friends are great;
And in the waters empty all thy bait.







        
        Ad Quintilianum

O CHIEF director of the growing race,
Of Rome the glory and of Rome the grace,
Me, O Quintilian, may you not forgive
Before from labour I make haste to live?
Some burn to gather wealth, lay hands on rule,
Or with white statues fill the atrium full.
The talking hearth, the rafters sweet with smoke,
Live fountains and rough grass, my line invoke:
A sturdy slave, not too learned wife,
Nights filled with slumber, and a quiet life.







        
        Ad Se Ipsum

DEAR sir, good-morrow! Five years back,
When you first girded for this arduous track,
And under various whimsical pretexts
Endowed another with your damned defects,
Could you have dreamed in your despondent vein
That the kind God would make your path so plain?
Non nobis, domine! O, may He still
Support my stumbling footsteps on the hill!







    
        After Reading "Antony And Cleopatra"

AS when the hunt by holt and field
Drives on with horn and strife,
Hunger of hopeless things pursues
Our spirits throughout life.


The sea's roar fills us aching full
Of objectless desire -
The sea's roar, and the white moon-shine,
And the reddening of the fire.


Who talks to me of reason now?
It would be more delight
To have died in Cleopatra's arms
Than be alive to-night.








        Air Of Diabelli's

CALL it to mind, O my love.
Dear were your eyes as the day,
Bright as the day and the sky;
Like the stream of gold and the sky above,
Dear were your eyes in the grey.
We have lived, my love, O, we have lived, my love!
Now along the silent river, azure
Through the sky's inverted image,
Softly swam the boat that bore our love,
Swiftly ran the shallow of our love
Through the heaven's inverted image,
In the reedy mazes round the river.
See along the silent river,


See of old the lover's shallop steer.
Berried brake and reedy island,
Heaven below and only heaven above.
Through the sky's inverted image
Swiftly swam the boat that bore our love.
Berried brake and reedy island,
Mirrored flower and shallop gliding by.
All the earth and all the sky were ours,
Silent sat the wafted lovers,
Bound with grain and watched by all the sky,
Hand to hand and eye to . . . eye.


Days of April, airs of Eden,
Call to mind how bright the vanished angel hours,
Golden hours of evening,
When our boat drew homeward filled with flowers.
O darling, call them to mind; love the past, my love.
Days of April, airs of Eden.
How the glory died through golden hours,
And the shining moon arising;
How the boat drew homeward filled with flowers.
Age and winter close us slowly in.


Level river, cloudless heaven,
Islanded reed mazes, silver weirs;


            
        How the silent boat with silver
Threads the inverted forest as she goes,
Broke the trembling green of mirrored trees.
O, remember, and remember
How the berries hung in garlands.


Still in the river see the shallop floats.
Hark! Chimes the falling oar.
Still in the mind
Hark to the song of the past!
Dream, and they pass in their dreams.


Those that loved of yore, O those that loved of yore!
Hark through the stillness, O darling, hark!
Through it all the ear of the mind


Knows the boat of love. Hark!
Chimes the falling oar.


O half in vain they grew old.


Now the halcyon days are over,
Age and winter close us slowly round,
And these sounds at fall of even
Dim the sight and muffle all the sound.
And at the married fireside, sleep of soul and sleep of fancy,
Joan and Darby.
Silence of the world without a sound;
And beside the winter faggot


Joan and Darby sit and dose and dream and wake -
Dream they hear the flowing, singing river,
See the berries in the island brake;
Dream they hear the weir,
See the gliding shallop mar the stream.
Hark! in your dreams do you hear?


Snow has filled the drifted forest;
Ice has bound the . . . stream.
Frost has bound our flowing river;
Snow has whitened all our island brake.




                    
        Berried brake and reedy island,
Heaven below and only heaven above azure
Through the sky's inverted image
Safely swam the boat that bore our love.
Dear were your eyes as the day,
Bright ran the stream, bright hung the sky above.
Days of April, airs of Eden.
How the glory died through golden hours,
And the shining moon arising,
How the boat drew homeward filled with flowers.
Bright were your eyes in the night:
We have lived, my love;
O, we have loved, my love.
Now the . . . days are over,
Age and winter close us slowly round.


Vainly time departs, and vainly
Age and winter come and close us round.


Hark the river's long continuous sound.


Hear the river ripples in the reeds.


Lo, in dreams they see their shallop
Run the lilies down and drown the weeds
Mid the sound of crackling faggots.
So in dreams the new created
Happy past returns, to-day recedes,
And they hear once more,


From the old years,
Yesterday returns, to-day recedes,
And they hear with aged hearing warbles


Love's own river ripple in the weeds.
And again the lover's shallop;
Lo, the shallop sheds the streaming weeds;
And afar in foreign countries
In the ears of aged lovers.


And again in winter evens
Starred with lilies . . . with stirring weeds.


        
        In these ears of aged lovers
Love's own river ripples in the reeds.








        An English Breeze

UP with the sun, the breeze arose,
Across the talking corn she goes,
And smooth she rustles far and wide
Through all the voiceful countryside.


Through all the land her tale she tells;
She spins, she tosses, she compels
The kites, the clouds, the windmill sails
And all the trees in all the dales.


God calls us, and the day prepares
With nimble, gay and gracious airs:
And from Penzance to Maidenhead
The roads last night He watered.


God calls us from inglorious ease,
Forth and to travel with the breeze
While, swift and singing, smooth and strong
She gallops by the fields along.








        Apologetic Postscript Of A Year Later

IF you see this song, my dear,
And last year's toast,
I'm confoundedly in fear
You'll be serious and severe
About the boast.


Blame not that I sought such aid
To cure regret.
I was then so lowly laid
I used all the Gasconnade
That I could get.


Being snubbed is somewhat smart,
Believe, my sweet;
And I needed all my art
To restore my broken heart
To its conceit.


Come and smile, dear, and forget
I boasted so,
I apologise - regret -
It was all a jest; - and - yet -
I do not know.








        Armies In The Fire

The lamps now glitter down the street;
Faintly sound the falling feet;
And the blue even slowly falls
About the garden trees and walls.


Now in the falling of the gloom
The red fire paints the empty room:
And warmly on the roof it looks,
And flickers on the back of books.


Armies march by tower and spire
Of cities blazing, in the fire;--
Till as I gaze with staring eyes,
The armies fall, the lustre dies.


Then once again the glow returns;
Again the phantom city burns;
And down the red-hot valley, lo!
The phantom armies marching go!


Blinking embers, tell me true
Where are those armies marching to,
And what the burning city is
That crumbles in your furnaces!








        As In Their Flight The Birds Of Song

AS in their flight the birds of song
Halt here and there in sweet and sunny dales,
But halt not overlong;
The time one rural song to sing
They pause; then following bounteous gales
Steer forward on the wing:
Sun-servers they, from first to last,
Upon the sun they wait
To ride the sailing blast.


So he awhile in our contested state,
Awhile abode, not longer, for his Sun -
Mother we say, no tenderer name we know -
With whose diviner glow
His early days had shone,
Now to withdraw her radiance had begun.
Or lest a wrong I say, not she withdrew,
But the loud stream of men day after day
And great dust columns of the common way
Between them grew and grew:
And he and she for evermore might yearn,
But to the spring the rivulets not return
Nor to the bosom comes the child again.


And he (O may we fancy so!),
He, feeling time forever flow
And flowing bear him forth and far away
From that dear ingle where his life began
And all his treasure lay -
He, waxing into man,
And ever farther, ever closer wound
In this obstreperous world's ignoble round,
From that poor prospect turned his face away.







    
        As One Who Having Wandered All Night Long

AS one who having wandered all night long
In a perplexed forest, comes at length
In the first hours, about the matin song,
And when the sun uprises in his strength,
To the fringed margin of the wood, and sees,
Gazing afar before him, many a mile
Of falling country, many fields and trees,
And cities and bright streams and far-off Ocean's smile:


I, O Melampus, halting, stand at gaze:
I, liberated, look abroad on life,
Love, and distress, and dusty travelling ways,
The steersman's helm, the surgeon's helpful knife,
On the lone ploughman's earth-upturning share,
The revelry of cities and the sound
Of seas, and mountain-tops aloof in air,
And of the circling earth the unsupported round:


I, looking, wonder: I, intent, adore;
And, O Melampus, reaching forth my hands
In adoration, cry aloud and soar
In spirit, high above the supine lands
And the low caves of mortal things, and flee
To the last fields of the universe untrod,
Where is no man, nor any earth, nor sea,
And the contented soul is all alone with God.







            
        At Last She Comes

AT last she comes, O never more
In this dear patience of my pain
To leave me lonely as before,
Or leave my soul alone again.








        At The Sea-Side

When I was down beside the sea
A wooden spade they gave to me
To dig the sandy shore.


My holes were empty like a cup.
In every hole the sea came up,
Till it could come no more.








        Auntie's Skirts

Whenever Auntie moves around,
Her dresses make a curious sound,
They trail behind her up the floor,
And trundle after through the door.








        Autumn Fires

In the other gardens
And all up the vale,
From the autumn bonfires
See the smoke trail!


Pleasant summer over
And all the summer flowers,
The red fire blazes,
The grey smoke towers.


Sing a song of seasons!
Something bright in all!
Flowers in the summer,
Fires in the fall!








        Away With Funeral Music

AWAY with funeral music - set
The pipe to powerful lips -
The cup of life's for him that drinks
And not for him that sips.








        Bed In Summer

In winter I get up at night
And dress by yellow candle-light.
In summer quite the other way,
I have to go to bed by day.


I have to go to bed and see
The birds still hopping on the tree,
Or hear the grown-up people's feet
Still going past me in the street.


And does it not seem hard to you,
When all the sky is clear and blue,
And I should like so much to play,
To have to go to bed by day?








        Before This Little Gift Was Come

BEFORE this little gift was come
The little owner had made haste for home;
And from the door of where the eternal dwell,
Looked back on human things and smiled farewell.
O may this grief remain the only one!
O may our house be still a garrison
Of smiling children, and for evermore
The tune of little feet be heard along the floor!







        
        Behold, As Goblins Dark Of Mien

BEHOLD, as goblins dark of mien
And portly tyrants dyed with crime
Change, in the transformation scene,
At Christmas, in the pantomime,


Instanter, at the prompter's cough,
The fairy bonnets them, and they
Throw their abhorred carbuncles off
And blossom like the flowers in May.


- So mankind, to angelic eyes,
So, through the scenes of life below,
In life's ironical disguise,
A travesty of man, ye go:


But fear not: ere the curtain fall,
Death in the transformation scene
Steps forward from her pedestal,
Apparent, as the fairy Queen;


And coming, frees you in a trice
From all your lendings - lust of fame,
Ungainly virtue, ugly vice,
Terror and tyranny and shame.


So each, at last himself, for good
In that dear country lays him down,
At last beloved and understood
And pure in feature and renown.








        Block City

What are you able to build with your blocks?
Castles and palaces, temples and docks.
Rain may keep raining, and others go roam,
But I can be happy and building at home.


Let the sofa be mountains, the carpet be sea,
There I'll establish a city for me:
A kirk and a mill and a palace beside,
And a harbor as well where my vessels may ride.


Great is the palace with pillar and wall,
A sort of a tower on top of it all,
And steps coming down in an orderly way
To where my toy vessels lie safe in the bay.


This one is sailing and that one is moored:
Hark to the song of the sailors on board!
And see on the steps of my palace, the kings
Coming and going with presents and things!







    
        Christmas At Sea

The sheets were frozen hard, and they cut the naked hand;
The decks were like a slide, where a seaman scarce could stand;
The wind was a nor'wester, blowing squally off the sea;
And cliffs and spouting breakers were the only things a-lee.


They heard the surf a-roaring before the break of day;
But 'twas only with the peep of light we saw how ill we lay.
We tumbled every hand on deck instanter, with a shout,
And we gave her the maintops'l, and stood by to go about.


All day we tacked and tacked between the South Head and the North;
All day we hauled the frozen sheets, and got no further forth;
All day as cold as charity, in bitter pain and dread,
For very life and nature we tacked from head to head.


We gave the South a wider berth, for there the tide race roared;
But every tack we made we brought the North Head close aboard:
So's we saw the cliffs and houses, and the breakers running high,
And the coastguard in his garden, with his glass against his eye.


The frost was on the village roofs as white as ocean foam;
The good red fires were burning bright in every 'long-shore home;
The windows sparkled clear, and the chimneys volleyed out;
And I vow we sniffed the victuals as the vessel went about.


The bells upon the church were rung with a mighty jovial cheer;
For it's just that I should tell you how (of all days in the year)
This day of our adversity was blessed Christmas morn,
And the house above the coastguard's was the house where I was born.


O well I saw the pleasant room, the pleasant faces there,
My mother's silver spectacles, my father's silver hair;
And well I saw the firelight, like a flight of homely elves,
Go dancing round the china plates that stand upon the shelves.


And well I knew the talk they had, the talk that was of me,
Of the shadow on the household and the son that went to sea;
And O the wicked fool I seemed, in every kind of way,
To be here and hauling frozen ropes on blessed Christmas Day.


                        
        They lit the high sea-light, and the dark began to fall.
'All hands to loose top gallant sails,' I heard the captain call.
'By the Lord, she'll never stand it,' our first mate, Jackson, cried.
. . . 'It's the one way or the other, Mr. Jackson,' he replied.


She staggered to her bearings, but the sails were new and good,
And the ship smelt up to windward just as though she understood.
As the winter's day was ending, in the entry of the night,
'We cleared the weary headland, and passed below the light.


And they heaved a mighty breath, every soul on board but me,
As they saw her nose again pointing handsome out to sea;
But all that I could think of, in the darkness and the cold,
Was just that I was leaving home and my folks were growing old.







                            
        Come From The Daisied Meadows


HOME from the daisied meadows, where you linger yet -
Home, golden-headed playmate, ere the sun is set;
For the dews are falling fast
And the night has come at last.
Home with you, home and lay your little head at rest,
Safe, safe, my little darling, on your mother's breast.
Lullaby, darling; your mother is watching you;
    she'll be your guardian and shield.
Lullaby, slumber, my darling, till morning be
    bright upon mountain and field.
Long, long the shadows fall.
All white and smooth at home your little bed is laid.
All round your head be angels.







            
        Come, Here Is Adieu To The City

COME, here is adieu to the city
And hurrah for the country again.
The broad road lies before me
Watered with last night's rain.
The timbered country woos me
With many a high and bough;
And again in the shining fallows
The ploughman follows the plough.


The whole year's sweat and study,
And the whole year's sowing time,
Comes now to the perfect harvest,
And ripens now into rhyme.
For we that sow in the Autumn,
We reap our grain in the Spring,
And we that go sowing and weeping
Return to reap and sing.








        Come, My Beloved, Hear From Me

COME, my beloved, hear from me
Tales of the woods or open sea.
Let our aspiring fancy rise
A wren's flight higher toward the skies;
Or far from cities, brown and bare,
Play at the least in open air.
In all the tales men hear us tell
Still let the unfathomed ocean swell,
Or shallower forest sound abroad
Below the lonely stars of God;
In all, let something still be done,
Still in a corner shine the sun,
Slim-ankled maids be fleet of foot,
Nor man disown the rural flute.
Still let the hero from the start
In honest sweat and beats of heart
Push on along the untrodden road
For some inviolate abode.
Still, O beloved, let me hear
The great bell beating far and near-
The odd, unknown, enchanted gong
That on the road hales men along,
That from the mountain calls afar,
That lures a vessel from a star,
And with a still, aerial sound
Makes all the earth enchanted ground.
Love, and the love of life and act
Dance, live and sing through all our furrowed tract;
Till the great God enamoured gives
To him who reads, to him who lives,
That rare and fair romantic strain
That whoso hears must hear again.







        
        Consolation

Though he, that ever kind and true,
Kept stoutly step by step with you,
Your whole long, gusty lifetime through,
    Be gone a while before,
Be now a moment gone before,
Yet, doubt not, soon the seasons shall restore
    Your friend to you.


He has but turned the corner — still
He pushes on with right good will,
Through mire and marsh, by heugh and hill,
    That self-same arduous way —
That self-same upland, hopeful way,
That you and he through many a doubtful day
    Attempted still.


He is not dead, this friend — not dead,
But in the path we mortals tread
Got some few, trifling steps ahead
    And nearer to the end;
So that you too, once past the bend,
Shall meet again, as face to face, this friend
    You fancy dead.


Push gaily on, strong heart! The while
You travel forward mile by mile,
He loiters with a backward smile
    Till you can overtake,
And strains his eyes to search his wake,
Or whistling, as he sees you through the brake,
    Waits on a stile.







    
        De Coenatione Micae

LOOK round: You see a little supper room;
But from my window, lo! great Caesar's tomb!
And the great dead themselves, with jovial breath
Bid you be merry and remember death.







        
        De Erotio Puella

THIS girl was sweeter than the song of swans,
And daintier than the lamb upon the lawns
Or Curine oyster. She, the flower of girls,
Outshone the light of Erythraean pearls;
The teeth of India that with polish glow,
The untouched lilies or the morning snow.
Her tresses did gold-dust outshine
And fair hair of women of the Rhine.
Compared to her the peacock seemed not fair,
The squirrel lively, or the phoenix rare;
Her on whose pyre the smoke still hovering waits;
Her whom the greedy and unequal fates
On the sixth dawning of her natal day,
My child-love and my playmate - snatcht away.









        
        De Ligurra


YOU fear, Ligurra - above all, you long -
That I should smite you with a stinging song.
This dreadful honour you both fear and hope -
Both all in vain: you fall below my scope.
The Lybian lion tears the roaring bull,
He does not harm the midge along the pool.


Lo! if so close this stands in your regard,
From some blind tap fish forth a drunken barn,
Who shall with charcoal, on the privy wall,
Immortalise your name for once and all.







    
        De M. Antonio

NOW Antoninus, in a smiling age,
Counts of his life the fifteenth finished stage.
The rounded days and the safe years he sees,
Nor fears death's water mounting round his knees.
To him remembering not one day is sad,
Not one but that its memory makes him glad.
So good men lengthen life; and to recall
The past is to have twice enjoyed it all.







        
        Death, To The Dead For Evermore

DEATH, to the dead for evermore
A King, a God, the last, the best of friends -
Whene'er this mortal journey ends
Death, like a host, comes smiling to the door;
Smiling, he greets us, on that tranquil shore
Where neither piping bird nor peeping dawn
Disturbs the eternal sleep,
But in the stillness far withdrawn
Our dreamless rest for evermore we keep.


For as from open windows forth we peep
Upon the night-time star beset
And with dews for ever wet;
So from this garish life the spirit peers;
And lo! as a sleeping city death outspread,
Where breathe the sleepers evenly; and lo!
After the loud wars, triumphs, trumpets, tears
And clamour of man's passion, Death appears,
And we must rise and go.


Soon are eyes tired with sunshine; soon the ears
Weary of utterance, seeing all is said;
Soon, racked by hopes and fears,
The all-pondering, all-contriving head,
Weary with all things, wearies of the years;
And our sad spirits turn toward the dead;
And the tired child, the body, longs for bed.







    
        Dedication

MY first gift and my last, to you
I dedicate this fascicle of songs -
The only wealth I have:
Just as they are, to you.


I speak the truth in soberness, and say
I had rather bring a light to your clear eyes,
Had rather hear you praise
This bosomful of songs


Than that the whole, hard world with one consent,
In one continuous chorus of applause
Poured forth for me and mine
The homage of ripe praise.


I write the finis here against my love,
This is my love's last epitaph and tomb.
Here the road forks, and I
Go my way, far from yours.







        
        Dedicatory Poem For "Underwoods"

TO her, for I must still regard her
As feminine in her degree,
Who has been my unkind bombarder
Year after year, in grief and glee,
Year after year, with oaken tree;
And yet betweenwhiles my laudator
In terms astonishing to me -
To the Right Reverend The Spectator
I here, a humble dedicator,
Bring the last apples from my tree.


In tones of love, in tones of warning,
She hailed me through my brief career;
And kiss and buffet, night and morning,
Told me my grandmamma was near;
Whether she praised me high and clear
Through her unrivalled circulation,
Or, sanctimonious insincere,
She damned me with a misquotation -
A chequered but a sweet relation,
Say, was it not, my granny dear?


Believe me, granny, altogether
Yours, though perhaps to your surprise.
Oft have you spruced my wounded feather,
Oft brought a light into my eyes -
For notice still the writer cries.
In any civil age or nation,
The book that is not talked of dies.
So that shall be my termination:
Whether in praise or execration,
Still, if you love me, criticise!








        Duddingstone

WITH caws and chirrupings, the woods
In this thin sun rejoice.
The Psalm seems but the little kirk
That sings with its own voice.


The cloud-rifts share their amber light
With the surface of the mere -
I think the very stones are glad
To feel each other near.


Once more my whole heart leaps and swells
And gushes o'er with glee;
The fingers of the sun and shade
Touch music stops in me.


Now fancy paints that bygone day
When you were here, my fair -
The whole lake rang with rapid skates
In the windless winter air.


You leaned to me, I leaned to you,
Our course was smooth as flight -
We steered - a heel-touch to the left,
A heel-touch to the right.


We swung our way through flying men,
Your hand lay fast in mine:
We saw the shifting crowd dispart,
The level ice-reach shine.


I swear by yon swan-travelled lake,
By yon calm hill above,
I swear had we been drowned that day
We had been drowned in love.








        Early In The Morning I Hear On Your Piano

EARLY in the morning I hear on your piano
You (at least, I guess it's you) proceed to learn to play.
Mostly little minds should take and tackle their piano
While the birds are singing in the morning of the day.







                
        Envoy For "A Child's Garden Of Verses"

WHETHER upon the garden seat
You lounge with your uplifted feet
Under the May's whole Heaven of blue;
Or whether on the sofa you,
No grown up person being by,
Do some soft corner occupy;
Take you this volume in your hands
And enter into other lands,
For lo! (as children feign) suppose
You, hunting in the garden rows,
Or in the lumbered attic, or
The cellar - a nail-studded door
And dark, descending stairway found
That led to kingdoms underground:
There standing, you should hear with ease
Strange birds a-singing, or the trees
Swing in big robber woods, or bells
On many fairy citadels:


There passing through (a step or so -
Neither mamma nor nurse need know!)
From your nice nurseries you would pass,
Like Alice through the Looking-Glass
Or Gerda following Little Ray,
To wondrous countries far away.
Well, and just so this volume can
Transport each little maid or man
Presto from where they live away
Where other children used to play.
As from the house your mother sees
You playing round the garden trees,
So you may see if you but look
Through the windows of this book
Another child far, far away
And in another garden play.
But do not think you can at all,
By knocking on the window, call
That child to hear you. He intent
Is still on his play-business bent.



        He does not hear, he will not look,
Nor yet be lured out of this book.
For long ago, the truth to say,
He has grown up and gone away;
And it is but a child of air
That lingers in the garden there.








        Epitaphium Erotii

HERE lies Erotion, whom at six years old
Fate pilfered. Stranger (when I too am cold,
Who shall succeed me in my rural field),
To this small spirit annual honours yield!
Bright be thy hearth, hale be thy babes, I crave
And this, in thy green farm, the only grave.







    
        Escape At Bedtime

The lights from the parlour and kitchen shone out
Through the blinds and the windows and bars;
And high overhead and all moving about,
There were thousands of millions of stars.
There ne'er were such thousands of leaves on a tree,
Nor of people in church or the Park,
As the crowds of the stars that looked down upon me,
And that glittered and winked in the dark.


The Dog, and the Plough, and the Hunter, and all,
And the star of the sailor, and Mars,
These shown in the sky, and the pail by the wall
Would be half full of water and stars.
They saw me at last, and they chased me with cries,
And they soon had me packed into bed;
But the glory kept shining and bright in my eyes,
And the stars going round in my head.







        
        Fair Isle At Sea

FAIR Isle at Sea - thy lovely name
Soft in my ear like music came.
That sea I loved, and once or twice
I touched at isles of Paradise.








        Fairy Bread

Come up here, O dusty feet!
Here is fairy ready to eat.
Here in my retiring room,
Children ,you may dine
On the golden smell of broom
And the shade of pine;
And when you have eaten well,
Fairy stories hear and tell.








        Farewell

FAREWELL, and when forth
I through the Golden Gates to Golden Isles
Steer without smiling, through the sea of smiles,
Isle upon isle, in the seas of the south,
Isle upon island, sea upon sea,
Why should I sail, why should the breeze?
I have been young, and I have counted friends.
A hopeless sail I spread, too late, too late.
Why should I from isle to isle
Sail, a hopeless sailor?







        
        Farewell To The Farm

The coach is at the door at last;
The eager children, mounting fast
And kissing hands, in chorus sing:
Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!


To house and garden, field and lawn,
The meadow-gates we swang upon,
To pump and stable, tree and swing,
Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!


And fare you well for evermore,
O ladder at the hayloft door,
O hayloft where the cobwebs cling,
Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!


Crack goes the whip, and off we go;
The trees and houses smaller grow;
Last, round the woody turn we sing:
Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!








        Fear Not, Dear Friend, But Freely Live Your Days

FEAR not, dear friend, but freely live your days
Though lesser lives should suffer. Such am I,
A lesser life, that what is his of sky
Gladly would give for you, and what of praise.
Step, without trouble, down the sunlit ways.
We that have touched your raiment, are made whole
From all the selfish cankers of man's soul,
And we would see you happy, dear, or die.
Therefore be brave, and therefore, dear, be free;
Try all things resolutely, till the best,
Out of all lesser betters, you shall find;
And we, who have learned greatness from you, we,
Your lovers, with a still, contented mind,
See you well anchored in some port of rest.







        
        Fifteen Men On The Dead Man's Chest

Fifteen men on the Dead Man's Chest —
    Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!
Drink and the devil had done for the rest —
    Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!








        Fixed Is The Doom

FIXED is the doom; and to the last of years
Teacher and taught, friend, lover, parent, child,
Each walks, though near, yet separate; each beholds
His dear ones shine beyond him like the stars.
We also, love, forever dwell apart;
With cries approach, with cries behold the gulph,
The Unvaulted; as two great eagles that do wheel in air
Above a mountain, and with screams confer,
Far heard athwart the cedars.
Yet the years
Shall bring us ever nearer; day by day
Endearing, week by week, till death at last
Dissolve that long divorce. By faith we love,
Not knowledge; and by faith, though far removed,
Dwell as in perfect nearness, heart to heart.
We but excuse
Those things we merely are; and to our souls
A brave deception cherish.
So from unhappy war a man returns
Unfearing, or the seaman from the deep;
So from cool night and woodlands to a feast
May someone enter, and still breathe of dews,
And in her eyes still wear the dusky night.







            
        Flower God, God Of The Spring

FLOWER god, god of the spring, beautiful, bountiful,
Cold-dyed shield in the sky, lover of versicles,
Here I wander in April
Cold, grey-headed; and still to my
Heart, Spring comes with a bound, Spring the deliverer,
Spring, song-leader in woods, chorally resonant;
Spring, flower-planter in meadows,
Child-conductor in willowy
Fields deep dotted with bloom, daisies and crocuses:
Here that child from his heart drinks of eternity:
O child, happy are children!
She still smiles on their innocence,
She, dear mother in God, fostering violets,
Fills earth full of her scents, voices and violins:
Thus one cunning in music
Wakes old chords in the memory:
Thus fair earth in the Spring leads her performances.
One more touch of the bow, smell of the virginal
Green - one more, and my bosom
Feels new life with an ecstasy.







            
        For Richmond's Garden Wall

WHEN Thomas set this tablet here,
Time laughed at the vain chanticleer;
And ere the moss had dimmed the stone,
Time had defaced that garrison.
Now I in turn keep watch and ward
In my red house, in my walled yard
Of sunflowers, sitting here at ease
With friends and my bright canvases.
But hark, and you may hear quite plain
Time's chuckled laughter in the lane.








        Foreign Children

Little Indian, Sioux, or Crow,
Little frosty Eskimo,
Little Turk or Japanee,
Oh! don't you wish that you were me?


You have seen the scarlet trees
And the lions over seas;
You have eaten ostrich eggs,
And turned the turtle off their legs.


Such a life is very fine,
But it's not so nice as mine:
You must often as you trod,
Have wearied NOT to be abroad.


You have curious things to eat,
I am fed on proper meat;
You must dwell upon the foam,
But I am safe and live at home.
Little Indian, Sioux or Crow,
Little frosty Eskimo,
Little Turk or Japanee,
Oh! don't you wish that you were me?








        Foreign Lands

Up into the cherry tree
Who should climb but little me?
I held the trunk with both my hands
And looked abroad in foreign lands.


I saw the next door garden lie,
Adorned with flowers, before my eye,
And many pleasant places more
That I had never seen before.


I saw the dimpling river pass
And be the sky's blue looking-glass;
The dusty roads go up and down
With people tramping in to town.


If I could find a higher tree
Farther and farther I should see,
To where the grown-up river slips
Into the sea among the ships,


To where the road on either hand
Lead onward into fairy land,
Where all the children dine at five,
And all the playthings come alive.








        Frag

About my fields, in the broad sun
And blaze of noon, there goeth one,
Barefoot and robed in blue, to scan
With the hard eye of the husbandman
My harvests and my cattle. Her,
When even puts the birds astir
And day has set in the great woods,
We seek, among her garden roods,
With bells and cries in vain: the while
Lamps, plate, and the decanter smile
On the forgotten board. But she,
Deaf, blind, and prone on face and knee,
Forgets time, family, and feast,
And digs like a demented beast.









        From A Railway Carriage

Faster than fairies, faster than witches,
Bridges and houses, hedges and ditches;
And charging along like troops in a battle
All through the meadows the horses and cattle:
All of the sights of the hill and the plain
Fly as thick as driving rain;
And ever again, in the wink of an eye,
Painted stations whistle by.
Here is a child who clambers and scrambles,
All by himself and gathering brambles;
Here is a tramp who stands and gazes;
And here is the green for stringing the daisies!
Here is a cart runaway in the road
Lumping along with man and load;
And here is a mill, and there is a river:
Each a glimpse and gone forever!







    
        Go, Little Book - The Ancient Phrase

GO, little book - the ancient phrase
And still the daintiest - go your ways,
My Otto, over sea and land,
Till you shall come to Nelly's hand.


How shall I your Nelly know?
By her blue eyes and her black brow,
By her fierce and slender look,
And by her goodness, little book!


What shall I say when I come there?
You shall speak her soft and fair:
See - you shall say - the love they send
To greet their unforgotten friend!


Giant Adulpho you shall sing
The next, and then the cradled king:
And the four corners of the roof
Then kindly bless; and to your perch aloof,
Where Balzac all in yellow dressed
And the dear Webster of the west
Encircle the prepotent throne
Of Shakespeare and of Calderon,
Shall climb an upstart.


There with these
You shall give ear to breaking seas
And windmills turning in the breeze,
A distant undetermined din
Without; and you shall hear within
The blazing and the bickering logs,
The crowing child, the yawning dogs,
And ever agile, high and low,
Our Nelly going to and fro.


There shall you all silent sit,
Till, when perchance the lamp is lit
And the day's labour done, she takes
Poor Otto down, and, warming for our sakes,



        Perchance beholds, alive and near,
Our distant faces reappear.








        God Gave To Me A Child In Part

GOD gave to me a child in part,
Yet wholly gave the father's heart:
Child of my soul, O whither now,
Unborn, unmothered, goest thou?


You came, you went, and no man wist;
Hapless, my child, no breast you kist;
On no dear knees, a privileged babbler, clomb,
Nor knew the kindly feel of home.


My voice may reach you, O my dear-
A father's voice perhaps the child may hear;
And, pitying, you may turn your view
On that poor father whom you never knew.


Alas! alone he sits, who then,
Immortal among mortal men,
Sat hand in hand with love, and all day through
With your dear mother wondered over you.







    
        Good And Bad Children

Children, you are very little,
And your bones are very brittle;
If you would grow great and stately,
You must try to walk sedately.


You must still be bright and quiet,
And content with simple diet;
And remain, through all bewild'ring,
Innocent and honest children.


Happy hearts and happy faces,
Happy play in grassy places--
That was how in ancient ages,
Children grew to kings and sages.


But the unkind and the unruly,
And the sort who eat unduly,
They must never hope for glory--
Theirs is quite a different story!


Cruel children, crying babies,
All grow up as geese and gabies,
Hated, as their age increases,
By their nephews and their nieces.








        Good-Night

Then the bright lamp is carried in,
The sunless hours again begin;
O'er all without, in field and lane,
The haunted night returns again.


Now we behold the embers flee
About the firelit hearth; and see
Our faces painted as we pass,
Like pictures, on the window glass.


Must we to bed indeed? Well then,
Let us arise and go like men,
And face with an undaunted tread
The long black passage up to bed.


Farewell, O brother, sister, sire!
O pleasant party round the fire!
The songs you sing, the tales you tell,
Till far to-morrow, fare you well!








        Had I The Power That Have The Will

HAD I the power that have the will,
The enfeebled will - a modern curse -
This book of mine should blossom still
A perfect garden-ground of verse.


White placid marble gods should keep
Good watch in every shadowy lawn;
And from clean, easy-breathing sleep
The birds should waken me at dawn.


- A fairy garden; - none the less
Throughout these gracious paths of mine
All day there should be free access
For stricken hearts and lives that pine;


And by the folded lawns all day -
No idle gods for such a land -
All active Love should take its way
With active Labour hand in hand.








        Hail! Childish Slave Of Social Rules

HAIL! Childish slaves of social rules
You had yourselves a hand in making!
How I could shake your faith, ye fools,
If but I thought it worth the shaking.
I see, and pity you; and then
Go, casting off the idle pity,
In search of better, braver men,
My own way freely through the city.


My own way freely, and not yours;
And, careless of a town's abusing,
Seek real friendship that endures
Among the friends of my own choosing.
I'll choose my friends myself, do you hear?
And won't let Mrs. Grundy do it,
Tho' all I honour and hold dear
And all I hope should move me to it.


I take my old coat from the shelf -
I am a man of little breeding.
And only dress to please myself -
I own, a very strange proceeding.
I smoke a pipe abroad, because
To all cigars I much prefer it,
And as I scorn your social laws
My choice has nothing to deter it.


Gladly I trudge the footpath way,
While you and yours roll by in coaches
In all the pride of fine array,
Through all the city's thronged approaches.
O fine religious, decent folk,
In Virtue's flaunting gold and scarlet,
I sneer between two puffs of smoke, -
Give me the publican and harlot.


Ye dainty-spoken, stiff, severe
Seed of the migrated Philistian,
One whispered question in your ear -



        Pray, what was Christ, if you be Christian?
If Christ were only here just now,
Among the city's wynds and gables
Teaching the life he taught us, how
Would he be welcome to your tables?


I go and leave your logic-straws,
Your former-friends with face averted,
Your petty ways and narrow laws,
Your Grundy and your God, deserted.
From your frail ark of lies, I flee
I know not where, like Noah's raven.
Full to the broad, unsounded sea
I swim from your dishonest haven.


Alone on that unsounded deep,
Poor waif, it may be I shall perish,
Far from the course I thought to keep,
Far from the friends I hoped to cherish.
It may be that I shall sink, and yet
Hear, thro' all taunt and scornful laughter,
Through all defeat and all regret,
The stronger swimmers coming after.








        Hail, Guest, And Enter Freely!

HAIL, guest, and enter freely! All you see
Is, for your momentary visit, yours; and we
Who welcome you are but the guests of God,
And know not our departure.








        Happy Thought

The world is so full of a number of things,
I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings.








        Heather Ale: A Galloway Legend

From the bonny bells of heather
They brewed a drink long-syne,
Was sweeter far than honey,
Was stronger far than wine.
They brewed it and they drank it,
And lay in a blessed swound
For days and days together
In their dwellings underground.


There rose a king in Scotland,
A fell man to his foes,
He smote the Picts in battle,
He hunted them like roes.
Over miles of the red mountain
He hunted as they fled,
And strewed the dwarfish bodies
Of the dying and the dead.


Summer came in the country,
Red was the heather bell;
But the manner of the brewing
Was none alive to tell.
In graves that were like children’s
On many a mountain head,
The Brewsters of the Heather
Lay numbered with the dead.


The king in the red moorland
Rode on a summer’s day;
And the bees hummed, and the curlews
Cried beside the way.
The king rode, and was angry;
Black was his brow and pale,
To rule in a land of heather
And lack the Heather Ale.


It fortuned that his vassals,
Riding free on the heath,
Came on a stone that was fallen



        And vermin hid beneath.
Rudely plucked from their hiding,
Never a word they spoke:
A son and his aged father—
Last of the dwarfish folk.


The king sat high on his charger,
He looked on the little men;
And the dwarfish and swarthy couple
Looked at the king again.
Down by the shore he had them;
And there on the giddy brink—
“I will give you life, ye vermin,
For the secret of the drink.”


There stood the son and father
And they looked high and low;
The heather was red around them,
The sea rumbled below.
And up and spoke the father,
Shrill was his voice to hear:
“I have a word in private,
A word for the royal ear.


“Life is dear to the aged,
And honor a little thing;
I would gladly sell the secret,”
Quoth the Pict to the King.
His voice was small as a sparrow’s,
And shrill and wonderful clear:
“I would gladly sell my secret,
Only my son I fear.


“For life is a little matter,
And death is nought to the young;
And I dare not sell my honor
Under the eye of my son.
Take him, O king, and bind him,
And cast him far in the deep;
And it ’s I will tell the secret
That I have sworn to keep.”





        They took the son and bound him,
Neck and heels in a thong,
And a lad took him and swung him,
And flung him far and strong,
And the sea swallowed his body,
Like that of a child of ten;—
And there on the cliff stood the father,
Last of the dwarfish men.


“True was the word I told you:
Only my son I feared;
For I doubt the sapling courage
That goes without the beard.
But now in vain is the torture,
Fire shall never avail:
Here dies in my bosom
The secret of Heather Ale.”








        Henry James

Who comes to-night? We open the doors in vain.
Who comes? My bursting walls, can you contain
The presences that now together throng
Your narrow entry, as with flowers and song,
As with the air of life, the breath of talk?
Lo, how these fair immaculate women walk
Behind their jocund maker; and we see
Slighted De Mauves, and that far different she,
Gressie, the trivial sphynx; and to our feast
Daisy and Barb and Chancellor (she not least!)
With all their silken, all their airy kin,
Do like unbidden angels enter in.
But he, attended by these shining names,
Comes (best of all) himself—our welcome James.







    
        Historical Associations

Dear Uncle Jim. this garden ground
That now you smoke your pipe around,
has seen immortal actions done
And valiant battles lost and won.


Here we had best on tip-toe tread,
While I for safety march ahead,
For this is that enchanted ground
Where all who loiter slumber sound.


Here is the sea, here is the sand,
Here is the simple Shepherd's Land,
Here are the fairy hollyhocks,
And there are Ali Baba's rocks.
But yonder, see! apart and high,
Frozen Siberia lies; where I,
With Robert Bruce William Tell,
Was bound by an enchanter's spell.








        Home, My Little Children, Hear Are Songs For You

COME, my little children, here are songs for you;
Some are short and some are long, and all, all are new.
You must learn to sing them very small and clear,
Very true to time and tune and pleasing to the ear.


Mark the note that rises, mark the notes that fall,
Mark the time when broken, and the swing of it all.
So when night is come, and you have gone to bed,
All the songs you love to sing shall echo in your head.







            
        I Am Like One That For Long Days Had Sate

I AM like one that for long days had sate,
With seaward eyes set keen against the gale,
On some lone foreland, watching sail by sail,
The portbound ships for one ship that was late;
And sail by sail, his heart burned up with joy,
And cruelly was quenched, until at last
One ship, the looked-for pennant at its mast,
Bore gaily, and dropt safely past the buoy;
And lo! the loved one was not there - was dead.
Then would he watch no more; no more the sea
With myriad vessels, sail by sail, perplex
His eyes and mock his longing. Weary head,
Take now thy rest; eyes, close; for no more me
Shall hopes untried elate, or ruined vex.


For thus on love I waited; thus for love
Strained all my senses eagerly and long;
Thus for her coming ever trimmed my song;
Till in the far skies coloured as a dove,
A bird gold-coloured flickered far and fled
Over the pathless waterwaste for me;
And with spread hands I watched the bright bird flee
And waited, till before me she dropped dead.
O golden bird in these dove-coloured skies
How long I sought, how long with wearied eyes
I sought, O bird, the promise of thy flight!
And now the morn has dawned, the morn has died,
The day has come and gone; and once more night
About my lone life settles, wild and wide.







        
        I Do Not Fear To Own Me Kin

I DO not fear to own me kin
To the glad clods in which spring flowers begin;
Or to my brothers, the great trees,
That speak with pleasant voices in the breeze,
Loud talkers with the winds that pass;
Or to my sister, the deep grass.


Of such I am, of such my body is,
That thrills to reach its lips to kiss.
That gives and takes with wind and sun and rain
And feels keen pleasure to the point of pain.


Of such are these,
The brotherhood of stalwart trees,
The humble family of flowers,
That make a light of shadowy bowers
Or star the edges of the bent:
They give and take sweet colour and sweet scent;
They joy to shed themselves abroad;
And tree and flower and grass and sod
Thrill and leap and live and sing
With silent voices in the Spring.


Hence I not fear to yield my breath,
Since all is still unchanged by death;
Since in some pleasant valley I may be,
Clod beside clod, or tree by tree,
Long ages hence, with her I love this hour;
And feel a lively joy to share
With her the sun and rain and air,
To taste her quiet neighbourhood
As the dumb things of field and wood,
The clod, the tree, and starry flower,
Alone of all things have the power.







    
        I Dreamed Of Forest Alleys Fair

I.


I DREAMED of forest alleys fair
And fields of gray-flowered grass,
Where by the yellow summer moon
My Jenny seemed to pass.


I dreamed the yellow summer moon,
Behind a cedar wood,
Lay white on fields of rippling grass
Where I and Jenny stood.


I dreamed - but fallen through my dream,
In a rainy land I lie
Where wan wet morning crowns the hills
Of grim reality.


II.


I am as one that keeps awake
All night in the month of June,
That lies awake in bed to watch
The trees and great white moon.


For memories of love are more
Than the white moon there above,
And dearer than quiet moonshine
Are the thoughts of her I love.


III.


Last night I lingered long without
My last of loves to see.
Alas! the moon-white window-panes
Stared blindly back on me.


To-day I hold her very hand,
Her very waist embrace -
Like clouds across a pool, I read



        Her thoughts upon her face.


And yet, as now, through her clear eyes
I seek the inner shrine -
I stoop to read her virgin heart
In doubt if it be mine -


O looking long and fondly thus,
What vision should I see?
No vision, but my own white face
That grins and mimics me.


IV.


Once more upon the same old seat
In the same sunshiny weather,
The elm-trees' shadows at their feet
And foliage move together.


The shadows shift upon the grass,
The dial point creeps on;
The clear sun shines, the loiterers pass,
As then they passed and shone.


But now deep sleep is on my heart,
Deep sleep and perfect rest.
Hope's flutterings now disturb no more
The quiet of my breast.








        I Know Not How, But As I Count

I KNOW not how, but as I count
The beads of former years,
Old laughter catches in my throat
With the very feel of tears.








        I Love To Be Warm By The Red Fireside

I LOVE to be warm by the red fireside,
I love to be wet with rain:
I love to be welcome at lamplit doors,
And leave the doors again.








        I Now, O Friend, Whom Noiselessly The Snows

I NOW, O friend, whom noiselessly the snows
Settle around, and whose small chamber grows
Dusk as the sloping window takes its load:


*****


The kindly hill, as to complete our hap,
Has ta'en us in the shelter of her lap;
Well sheltered in our slender grove of trees
And ring of walls, we sit between her knees;
A disused quarry, paved with rose plots, hung
With clematis, the barren womb whence sprung
The crow-stepped house itself, that now far seen
Stands, like a bather, to the neck in green.
A disused quarry, furnished with a seat
Sacred to pipes and meditation meet
For such a sunny and retired nook.
There in the clear, warm mornings many a book
Has vied with the fair prospect of the hills
That, vale on vale, rough brae on brae, upfills
Halfway to the zenith all the vacant sky
To keep my loose attention. . . .
Horace has sat with me whole mornings through:
And Montaigne gossiped, fairly false and true;
And chattering Pepys, and a few beside
That suit the easy vein, the quiet tide,
The calm and certain stay of garden-life,
Far sunk from all the thunderous roar of strife.
There is about the small secluded place
A garnish of old times; a certain grace
Of pensive memories lays about the braes:
The old chestnuts gossip tales of bygone days.
Here, where some wandering preacher, blest Lazil,
Perhaps, or Peden, on the middle hill
Had made his secret church, in rain or snow,
He cheers the chosen residue from woe.
All night the doors stood open, come who might,
The hounded kebbock mat the mud all night.
Nor are there wanting later tales; of how


        
        Prince Charlie's Highlanders . . .


*****


I have had talents, too. In life's first hour
God crowned with benefits my childish head.
Flower after flower, I plucked them; flower by flower
Cast them behind me, ruined, withered, dead.
Full many a shining godhead disappeared.
From the bright rank that once adorned her brow
The old child's Olympus


*****


Gone are the fair old dreams, and one by one,
As, one by one, the means to reach them went,
As, one by one, the stars in riot and disgrace,
I squandered what . . .


There shut the door, alas! on many a hope
Too many;
My face is set to the autumnal slope,
Where the loud winds shall . . .


There shut the door, alas! on many a hope,
And yet some hopes remain that shall decide
My rest of years and down the autumnal slope.


*****


Gone are the quiet twilight dreams that I
Loved, as all men have loved them; gone!
I have great dreams, and still they stir my soul on high -
Dreams of the knight's stout heart and tempered will.
Not in Elysian lands they take their way;
Not as of yore across the gay champaign,
Towards some dream city, towered . . .
and my . . .
The path winds forth before me, sweet and plain,
Not now; but though beneath a stone-grey sky
November's russet woodlands toss and wail,
Still the white road goes thro' them, still may I,


                
        Strong in new purpose, God, may still prevail.


*****


I and my like, improvident sailors!


*****


At whose light fall awaking, all my heart
Grew populous with gracious, favoured thought,
And all night long thereafter, hour by hour,
The pageant of dead love before my eyes
Went proudly, and old hopes with downcast head
Followed like Kings, subdued in Rome's imperial hour,
Followed the car; and I . . .







            
        I Who All The Winter Through

I WHO all the winter through
Cherished other loves than you,
And kept hands with hoary policy in marriage-bed and pew;
Now I know the false and true,
For the earnest sun looks through,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.


Now the hedged meads renew
Rustic odour, smiling hue,
And the clean air shines and tinkles as the world goes wheeling through;
And my heart springs up anew,
Bright and confident and true,
And my old love comes to meet me in the dawning and the dew.







                            
        I Will Make You Brooches

I will make you brooches and toys for your delight
Of bird-song at morning and star-shine at night.
I will make a palace fit for you and me
Of green days in forests and blue days at sea.


I will make my kitchen, and you shall keep your room,
Where white flows the river and bright blows the broom,
And you shall wash your linen and keep your body white
In rainfall at morning and dewfall at night.


And this shall be for music when no one else is near,
The fine song for singing, the rare song to hear!
That only I remember, that only you admire,
Of the broad road that stretches and the roadside fire.







            
        I, Whom Apollo Somtime Visited

I, WHOM Apollo sometime visited,
Or feigned to visit, now, my day being done,
Do slumber wholly; nor shall know at all
The weariness of changes; nor perceive
Immeasurable sands of centuries
Drink of the blanching ink, or the loud sound
Of generations beat the music down.







    
        If This Were Faith

God, if this were enough,
That I see things bare to the buff
And up to the buttocks in mire;
That I ask nor hope nor hire,
Nut in the husk,
Nor dawn beyond the dusk,
Nor life beyond death:
God, if this were faith!


Having felt thy wind in my face
Spit sorrow and disgrace,
Having seen thine evil doom
In Golgotha and Khartoum,
And the brutes, the work of thine hands,
Fill with injustice lands
And stain with blood the sea:
If still in my veins the glee
Of the black night and the sun
And the lost battle, run:
If, an adept,
The iniquitous lists I still accept
With joy, and joy to endure and be withstood,
And still to battle and perish for a dream of good:
God, if that were enough!


If to feel, in the ink of the slough,
And the sink of the mire,
Veins of glory and fire
Run through and transpierce and transpire,
And a secret purpose of glory in every part,
And the answering glory of battle fill my heart;
To thrill with the joy of girded men
To go on for ever and fail and go on again,
And be mauled to the earth and arise,
And contend for the shade of a word and a thing
not seen with the eyes:
With the half of a broken hope for a pillow at night
That somehow the right is the right
And the smooth shall bloom from the rough:


        
        Lord, if that were enough!








        In Charidemum

YOU, Charidemus, who my cradle swung,
And watched me all the days that I was young;
You, at whose step the laziest slaves awake,
And both the bailiff and the butler quake;
The barber's suds now blacken with my beard,
And my rough kisses make the maids afeared;
But with reproach your awful eyebrows twitch,
And for the cane, I see, your fingers itch.
If something daintily attired I go,
Straight you exclaim: "Your father did not so."
And fuming, count the bottles on the board
As though my cellar were your private hoard.
Enough, at last: I have done all I can,
And your own mistress hails me for a man.







    
        In Lupum

BEYOND the gates thou gav'st a field to till;
I have a larger on my window-sill.
A farm, d'ye say? Is this a farm to you,
Where for all woods I spay one tuft of rue,
And that so rusty, and so small a thing,
One shrill cicada hides it with a wing;
Where one cucumber covers all the plain;
And where one serpent rings himself in vain
To enter wholly; and a single snail
Eats all and exit fasting to the pool?
Here shall my gardener be the dusty mole.
My only ploughman the . . . mole.
Here shall I wait in vain till figs be set,
And till the spring disclose the violet.
Through all my wilds a tameless mouse careers,
And in that narrow boundary appears,
Huge as the stalking lion of Algiers,
Huge as the fabled boar of Calydon.
And all my hay is at one swoop impresst
By one low-flying swallow for her nest,
Strip god Priapus of each attribute
Here finds he scarce a pedestal to foot.
The gathered harvest scarcely brims a spoon;
And all my vintage drips in a cocoon.
Generous are you, but I more generous still:
Take back your farm and stand me half a gill!







    
        In Maximum

WOULDST thou be free? I think it not, indeed;
But if thou wouldst, attend this simple rede:
When quite contented }thou canst dine at home
Thou shall be free when }
And drink a small wine of the march of Rome;
When thou canst see unmoved thy neighbour's plate,
And wear my threadbare toga in the gate;
When thou hast learned to love a small abode,
And not to choose a mistress A LA MODE:
When thus contained and bridled thou shalt be,
Then, Maximus, then first shalt thou be free.







        
        In Port

Last, to the chamber where I lie
My fearful footsteps patter nigh,
And come out from the cold and gloom
Into my warm and cheerful room.


There, safe arrived, we turn about
To keep the coming shadows out,
And close the happy door at last
On all the perils that we past.


Then, when mamma goes by to bed,
She shall come in with tip-toe tread,
And see me lying warm and fast
And in the land of Nod at last.








        In The Green And Gallant Spring

IN the green and gallant Spring,
Love and the lyre I thought to sing,
And kisses sweet to give and take
By the flowery hawthorn brake.


Now is russet Autumn here,
Death and the grave and winter drear,
And I must ponder here aloof
While the rain is on the roof.








        In The Highlands

IN the highlands, in the country places,
Where the old plain men have rosy faces,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the young fair maidens
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Quiet eyes;
Where essential silence cheers and blesses,
And for ever in the hill-recesses
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Her more lovely music
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Broods and dies--


O to mount again where erst I haunted;
Where the old red hills are bird-enchanted,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And the low green meadows
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bright with sward;
And when even dies, the million-tinted,
And the night has come, and planets glinted,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lo, the valley hollow
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lamp-bestarr'd!


O to dream, O to awake and wander
There, and with delight to take and render,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Through the trance of silence,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Quiet breath!
Lo! for there, among the flowers and grasses,
Only the mightier movement sounds and passes;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Only winds and rivers,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Life and death.







    
        In The States

With half a heart I wander here
As from an age gone by
A brother yet— though young in years,
An elder brother, I.


You speak another tongue than mine,
Though both were English born.
I towards the night of time decline,
You mount into the morn.


You shall grow great and strong and free,
But age must still decay:
To-morrow for the States— for me,
England and Yesterday.








        It Blows A Snowing Gale

IT blows a snowing gale in the winter of the year;
The boats are on the sea and the crews are on the pier.
The needle of the vane, it is veering to and fro,
A flash of sun is on the veering of the vane.
Autumn leaves and rain,
The passion of the gale.







            
     







                        
        Katherine

We see you as we see a face
That trembles in a forest place
Upon the mirror of a pool
Forever quiet, clear and cool;
And in the wayward glass, appears
To hover between smiles and tears,
Elfin and human, airy and true,
And backed by the reflected blue.








        Keepsake Mill

Over the borders, a sin without pardon,
Breaking the branches and crawling below,
Out through the breach in the wall of the garden,
Down by the banks of the river we go.


Here is a mill with the humming of thunder,
Here is the weir with the wonder of foam,
Here is the sluice with the race running under--
Marvellous places, though handy to home!


Sounds of the village grow stiller and stiller,
Stiller the note of the birds on the hill;
Dusty and dim are the eyes of the miller,
Deaf are his ears with the moil of the mill.


Years may go by, and the wheel in the river
Wheel as it wheels for us, children, to-day,
Wheel and keep roaring and foaming for ever
Long after all of the boys are away.


Home for the Indies and home from the ocean,
Heroes and soldiers we all will come home;
Still we shall find the old mill wheel in motion,
Turning and churning that river to foam.


You with the bean that I gave when we quarrelled,
I with your marble of Saturday last,
Honoured and old and all gaily apparelled,
Here we shall meet and remember the past.







        
        Know You The River Near To Grez

KNOW you the river near to Grez,
A river deep and clear?
Among the lilies all the way,
That ancient river runs to-day
From snowy weir to weir.


Old as the Rhine of great renown,
She hurries clear and fast,
She runs amain by field and town
From south to north, from up to down,
To present on from past.


The love I hold was borne by her;
And now, though far away,
My lonely spirit hears the stir
Of water round the starling spur
Beside the bridge at Grez.


So may that love forever hold
In life an equal pace;
So may that love grow never old,
But, clear and pure and fountain-cold,
Go on from grace to grace.








        Late, O Miller

LATE, O miller,
The birds are silent,
The darkness falls.
In the house the lights are lighted.
See, in the valley they twinkle,
The lights of home.
Late, O lovers,
The night is at hand;
Silence and darkness
Clothe the land.








        Let Love Go, If Go She Will

LET love go, if go she will.
Seek not, O fool, her wanton flight to stay.
Of all she gives and takes away
The best remains behind her still.


The best remains behind; in vain
Joy she may give and take again,
Joy she may take and leave us pain,
If yet she leave behind
The constant mind
To meet all fortunes nobly, to endure
All things with a good heart, and still be pure,
Still to be foremost in the foremost cause,
And still be worthy of the love that was.
Love coming is omnipotent indeed,
But not Love going. Let her go. The seed
Springs in the favouring Summer air, and grows,
And waxes strong; and when the Summer goes,
Remains, a perfect tree.


Joy she may give and take again,
Joy she may take and leave us pain.
O Love, and what care we?
For one thing thou hast given, O Love, one thing
Is ours that nothing can remove;
And as the King discrowned is still a King,
The unhappy lover still preserves his love.







    
        Light As The Linnet On My Way I Start

LIGHT as the linnet on my way I start,
For all my pack I bear a chartered heart.
Forth on the world without a guide or chart,
Content to know, through all man's varying fates,
The eternal woman by the wayside waits.







        
        Lo! In Thine Honest Eyes I Read

LO! in thine honest eyes I read
The auspicious beacon that shall lead,
After long sailing in deep seas,
To quiet havens in June ease.


Thy voice sings like an inland bird
First by the seaworn sailor heard;
And like road sheltered from life's sea
Thine honest heart is unto me.








        Lo, Now, My Guest

LO, now, my guest, if aught amiss were said,
Forgive it and dismiss it from your head.
For me, for you, for all, to close the date,
Pass now the ev'ning sponge across the slate;
And to that spirit of forgiveness keep
Which is the parent and the child of sleep.







    
        Long Time I Lay In Little Ease

LONG TIME I LAY IN LITTLE EASE



LONG time I lay in little ease
Where, placed by the Turanian,
Marseilles, the many-masted, sees
The blue Mediterranean.


Now songful in the hour of sport,
Now riotous for wages,
She camps around her ancient port,
As ancient of the ages.


Algerian airs through all the place
Unconquerably sally;
Incomparable women pace
The shadows of the alley.


And high o'er dark and graving yard
And where the sky is paler,
The golden virgin of the guard
Shines, beckoning the sailor.


She hears the city roar on high,
Thief, prostitute, and banker;
She sees the masted vessels lie
Immovably at anchor.


She sees the snowy islets dot
The sea's immortal azure,
And If, that castellated spot,
Tower, turret, and embrasure.








        Looking Forward

When I am grown to man's estate
I shall be very proud and great,
And tell the other girls and boys
Not to meddle with my toys.








        Looking-Glass River

Smooth it glides upon its travel,
Here a wimple, there a gleam--
O the clean gravel!
O the smooth stream!


Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
Pave pools as clear as air--
How a child wishes
To live down there!


We can see our colored faces
Floating on the shaken pool
Down in cool places,
Dim and very cool;


Till a wind or water wrinkle,
Dipping marten, plumping trout,
Spreads in a twinkle
And blots all out.


See the rings pursue each other;
All below grows black as night,
Just as if mother
Had blown out the light!


Patience, children, just a minute--
See the spreading circles die;
The stream and all in it
Will clear by-and-by.








        Loud And Low In The Chimney

LOUD and low in the chimney
The squalls suspire;
Then like an answer dwindles
And glows the fire,
And the chamber reddens and darkens
In time like taken breath.
Near by the sounding chimney
The youth apart
Hearkens with changing colour
And leaping heart,
And hears in the coil of the tempest
The voice of love and death.
Love on high in the flute-like
And tender notes
Sounds as from April meadows
And hillside cotes;
But the deep wood wind in the chimney
Utters the slogan of death.








        Love, What Is Love

LOVE - what is love? A great and aching heart;
Wrung hands; and silence; and a long despair.
Life - what is life? Upon a moorland bare
To see love coming and see love depart.







    
        Love's Vicissitudes

AS Love and Hope together
Walk by me for a while,
Link-armed the ways they travel
For many a pleasant mile -
Link-armed and dumb they travel,
They sing not, but they smile.


Hope leaving, Love commences
To practise on the lute;
And as he sings and travels
With lingering, laggard foot,
Despair plays obligato
The sentimental flute.


Until in singing garments
Comes royally, at call -
Comes limber-hipped Indiff'rence
Free stepping, straight and tall -
Comes singing and lamenting,
The sweetest pipe of all.








        Man Sails The Deep Awhile

MAN sails the deep awhile;
Loud runs the roaring tide;
The seas are wild and wide;
O'er many a salt, o'er many a desert mile,
The unchained breakers ride,
The quivering stars beguile.


Hope bears the sole command;
Hope, with unshaken eyes,
Sees flaw and storm arise;
Hope, the good steersman, with unwearying hand,
Steers, under changing skies,
Unchanged toward the land.


O wind that bravely blows!
O hope that sails with all
Where stars and voices call!
O ship undaunted that forever goes
Where God, her admiral,
His battle signal shows!


What though the seas and wind
Far on the deep should whelm
Colours and sails and helm?
There, too, you touch that port that you designed -
There, in the mid-seas' realm,
Shall you that haven find.


Well hast thou sailed: now die,
To die is not to sleep.
Still your true course you keep,
O sailor soul, still sailing for the sky;
And fifty fathom deep
Your colours still shall fly.







        
        Marching Song

Bring the comb and play upon it!
Marching, here we come!
Willie cocks his highland bonnet,
Johnnie beats the drum.


Mary Jane commands the party,
Peter leads the rear;
Feet in time, alert and hearty,
Each a Grenadier!


All in the most martial manner
Marching double-quick;
While the napkin, like a banner,
Waves upon the stick!


Here's enough of fame and pillage,
Great commander Jane!
Now that we've been round the village,
Let's go home again.








        Men Are Heaven's Piers

MEN are Heaven's piers; they evermore
Unwearying bear the skyey floor;
Man's theatre they bear with ease,
Unfrowning cariatides!
I, for my wife, the sun uphold,
Or, dozing, strike the seasons cold.
She, on her side, in fairy-wise
Deals in diviner mysteries,
By spells to make the fuel burn
And keep the parlour warm, to turn
Water to wine, and stones to bread,
By her unconquered hero-head.
A naked Adam, naked Eve,
Alone the primal bower we weave;
Sequestered in the seas of life,
A Crusoe couple, man and wife,
With all our good, with all our will,
Our unfrequented isle we fill;
And victor in day's petty wars,
Each for the other lights the stars.
Come then, my Eve, and to and fro
Let us about our garden go;
And, grateful-hearted, hand in hand
Revisit all our tillage land,
And marvel at our strange estate,
For hooded ruin at the gate
Sits watchful, and the angels fear
To see us tread so boldly here.
Meanwhile, my Eve, with flower and grass
Our perishable days we pass;
Far more the thorn observe - and see
How our enormous sins go free -
Nor less admire, beside the rose,
How far a little virtue goes.








        Mine Eyes Were Swift To Know Thee

MINE eyes were swift to know thee, and my heart
As swift to love. I did become at once
Thine wholly, thine unalterably, thine
In honourable service, pure intent,
Steadfast excess of love and laughing care:
And as she was, so am, and so shall be.
I knew thee helpful, knew thee true, knew thee
And Pity bedfellows: I heard thy talk
With answerable throbbings. On the stream,
Deep, swift, and clear, the lilies floated; fish
Through the shadows ran. There, thou and I
Read Kindness in our eyes and closed the match.







    
        Music At The Villa Marina

FOR some abiding central source of power,
Strong-smitten steady chords, ye seem to flow
And, flowing, carry virtue. Far below,
The vain tumultuous passions of the hour
Fleet fast and disappear; and as the sun
Shines on the wake of tempests, there is cast
O'er all the shattered ruins of my past
A strong contentment as of battles won.


And yet I cry in anguish, as I hear
The long drawn pageant of your passage roll
Magnificently forth into the night.
To yon fair land ye come from, to yon sphere
Of strength and love where now ye shape your flight,
O even wings of music, bear my soul!


Ye have the power, if but ye had the will,
Strong-smitten steady chords in sequence grand,
To bear me forth into that tranquil land
Where good is no more ravelled up with ill;
Where she and I, remote upon some hill
Or by some quiet river's windless strand,
May live, and love, and wander hand in hand,
And follow nature simply, and be still.


From this grim world, where, sadly, prisoned, we
Sit bound with others' heart-strings as with chains,
And, if one moves, all suffer, - to that Goal,
If such a land, if such a sphere, there be,
Thither, from life and all life's joys and pains,
O even wings of music, bear my soul!







        
        My Bed Is A Boat

My bed is like a little boat;
Nurse helps me in when I embark;
She girds me in my sailor's coat
And starts me in the dark.


At night I go on board and say
Good-night to all my friends on shore;
I shut my eyes and sail away
And see and hear no more.


And sometimes things to bed I take,
As prudent sailors have to do;
Perhaps a slice of wedding-cake,
Perhaps a toy or two.


All night across the dark we steer;
But when the day returns at last,
Safe in my room beside the pier,
I find my vessel fast.








        My Body, Which My Dungeon Is

My body which my dungeon is,
And yet my parks and palaces: -
    Which is so great that there I go
All the day long to and fro,
And when the night begins to fall
Throw down my bed and sleep, while all
The buildings hum with wakefulness -
Even as a child of savages
When evening takes her on her way,
(She having roamed a summer's day
Along the mountain-sides and scalp)
Sleeps in an antre of that alp: -
    Which is so broad and high that there,
As in the topless fields of air
My fancy soars like to a kite
And faints in the blue infinite: -
    Which is so strong, my strongest throes
And the rough world's besieging blows
Not break it, and so weak withal,
Death ebbs and flows in its loose wall
As the green sea in fishers' nets,
And tops its topmost parapets: -
    Which is so wholly mine that I
Can wield its whole artillery,
And mine so little, that my soul
Dwells in perpetual control,
And I but think and speak and do
As my dead fathers move me to: -
    If this born body of my bones
The beggared soul so barely owns,
What money passed from hand to hand,
What creeping custom of the land,
What deed of author or assign,
Can make a house a thing of mine?








        My Heart, When First The Black-Bird Sings

MY heart, when first the blackbird sings,
My heart drinks in the song:
Cool pleasure fills my bosom through
And spreads each nerve along.


My bosom eddies quietly,
My heart is stirred and cool
As when a wind-moved briar sweeps
A stone into a pool


But unto thee, when thee I meet,
My pulses thicken fast,
As when the maddened lake grows black
And ruffles in the blast.








        My Heart, When First The Black-Bird Sings

MY heart, when first the blackbird sings,
My heart drinks in the song:
Cool pleasure fills my bosom through
And spreads each nerve along.


My bosom eddies quietly,
My heart is stirred and cool
As when a wind-moved briar sweeps
A stone into a pool


But unto thee, when thee I meet,
My pulses thicken fast,
As when the maddened lake grows black
And ruffles in the blast.








        My House, I Say

My house, I say. But hark to the sunny doves
That make my roof the arena of their loves,
That gyre about the gable all day long
And fill the chimneys with their murmurous song:
Our house, they say; and mine, the cat declares
And spreads his golden fleece upon the chairs;
And mine the dog, and rises stiff with wrath
If any alien foot profane the path.
So, too, the buck that trimmed my terraces,
Our whilom gardener, called the garden his;
Who now, deposed, surveys my plain abode
And his late kingdom, only from the road.







    
        My Kingdom

Down by a shining water well
I found a very little dell,
No higher than my head.
The heather and the gorse about
In summer bloom were coming out,
Some yellow and some red.


I called the little pool a sea;
The little hills were big to me;
For I am very small.
I made a boat, I made a town,
I searched the caverns up and down,
And named them one and all.


And all about was mine, I said,
The little sparrows overhead,
The little minnows too.
This was the world and I was king;
For me the bees came by to sing,
For me the swallows flew.


I played there were no deeper seas,
Nor any wider plains than these,
Nor other kings than me.
At last I heard my mother call
Out from the house at evenfall,
To call me home to tea.


And I must rise and leave my dell,
And leave my dimpled water well,
And leave my heather blooms.
Alas! and as my home I neared,
How very big my nurse appeared.
How great and cool the rooms!








        My Love Was Warm

MY love was warm; for that I crossed
The mountains and the sea,
Nor counted that endeavour lost
That gave my love to me.


If that indeed were love at all,
As still, my love, I trow,
By what dear name am I to call
The bond that holds me now








        My Shadow

From Child's Garden of Verses


I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me,
And what can be the use of him is more than I can see.
He is very, very like me from the heels up to the head;
And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed.


The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow--
Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow;
For he sometimes shoots up taller like an india-rubber ball,
And he sometimes goes so little that there's none of him at all.


He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play,
And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way.
He stays so close behind me, he's a coward you can see;
I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me!


One morning, very early, before the sun was up,
I rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup;
But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy-head,
Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed.







                    
        My Ship And I

O it's I that am the captain of a tidy little ship,
Of a ship that goes a sailing on the pond;
And my ship it keeps a-turning all around and all about;
But when I'm a little older, I shall find the secret out
How to send my vessel sailing on beyond.


For I mean to grow a little as the dolly at the helm,
And the dolly I intend to come alive;
And with him beside to help me, it's a-sailing I shall go,
It's a-sailing on the water, when the jolly breezes blow
And the vessel goes a dive-dive-dive.


O it's then you'll see me sailing through the rushes and the reeds,
And you'll hear the water singing at the prow;
For beside the dolly sailor, I'm to voyage and explore,
To land upon the island where no dolly was before,
And to fire the penny cannon in the bow.







                        
        My Treasures

These nuts, that I keep in the back of the nest,
Where all my tin soldiers are lying at rest,
Were gathered in Autumn by nursie and me
In a wood with a well by the side of the sea.


This whistle we made (and how clearly it sounds!)
By the side of a field at the end of the grounds.
Of a branch of a plane, with a knife of my own,
It was nursie who made it, and nursie alone!


The stone, with the white and the yellow and grey,
We discovered I cannot tell HOW far away;
And I carried it back although weary and cold,
For though father denies it, I'm sure it is gold.


But of all my treasures the last is the king,
For there's very few children possess such a thing;
And that is a chisel, both handle and blade,
Which a man who was really a carpenter made.







        
        My Wife

Trusty, dusky, vivid, true,
With eyes of gold and bramble-dew,
Steel-true and blade-straight,
The great artificer
Made my mate.


Honour, anger, valour, fire;
A love that life could never tire,
Death quench or evil stir,
The mighty master
Gave to her.


Teacher, tender, comrade, wife,
A fellow-farer true through life,
Heart-whole and soul-free
The august father
Gave to me.








        Ne Sit Ancillae Tibi Amor Pudor

THERE'S just a twinkle in your eye
That seems to say I MIGHT, if I
Were only bold enough to try
An arm about your waist.
I hear, too, as you come and go,
That pretty nervous laugh, you know;
And then your cap is always so
Coquettishly displaced.


Your cap! the word's profanely said.
That little top-knot, white and red,
That quaintly crowns your graceful head,
No bigger than a flower,
Is set with such a witching art,
Is so provocatively smart,
I'd like to wear it on my heart,
An order for an hour!


O graceful housemaid, tall and fair,
I love your shy imperial air,
And always loiter on the stair
When you are going by.
A strict reserve the fates demand;
But, when to let you pass I stand,
Sometimes by chance I touch your hand
And sometimes catch your eye.








        Nest Eggs

Birds all the summer day
Flutter and quarrel
Here in the arbour-like
Tent of the laurel.


Here in the fork
The brown nest is seated;
For little blue eggs
The mother keeps heated.


While we stand watching her
Staring like gabies,
Safe in each egg are the
Bird's little babies.


Soon the frail eggs they shall
Chip, and upspringing
Make all the April woods
Merry with singing.


Younger than we are,
O children, and frailer,
Soon in the blue air they'll be,
Singer and sailor.


We, so much older,
Taller and stronger,
We shall look down on the
Birdies no longer.


They shall go flying
With musical speeches
High overhead in the
Tops of the beeches.


In spite of our wisdom
And sensible talking,
We on our feet must go
Plodding and walking.



       





        Night And Day

When the golden day is done,
Through the closing portal,
Child and garden, Flower and sun,
Vanish all things mortal.


As the blinding shadows fall
As the rays diminish,
Under evening's cloak they all
Roll away and vanish.


Garden darkened, daisy shut,
Child in bed, they slumber--
Glow-worm in the hallway rut,
Mice among the lumber.


In the darkness houses shine,
Parents move the candles;
Till on all the night divine
Turns the bedroom handles.


Till at last the day begins
In the east a-breaking,
In the hedges and the whins
Sleeping birds a-waking.


In the darkness shapes of things,
Houses, trees and hedges,
Clearer grow; and sparrow's wings
Beat on window ledges.


These shall wake the yawning maid;
She the door shall open--
Finding dew on garden glade
And the morning broken.


There my garden grows again
Green and rosy painted,
As at eve behind the pane
From my eyes it fainted.



        Just as it was shut away,
Toy-like, in the even,
Here I see it glow with day
Under glowing heaven.


Every path and every plot,
Every blush of roses,
Every blue forget-me-not
Where the dew reposes,


"Up!" they cry, "the day is come
On the smiling valleys:
We have beat the morning drum;
Playmate, join your allies!"








        Now Bare To The Beholder's Eye

NOW bare to the beholder's eye
Your late denuded bindings lie,
Subsiding slowly where they fell,
A disinvested citadel;
The obdurate corset, Cupid's foe,
The Dutchman's breeches frilled below.
Those that the lover notes to note,
And white and crackling petticoat.


From these, that on the ground repose,
Their lady lately re-arose;
And laying by the lady's name,
A living woman re-became.
Of her, that from the public eye
They do enclose and fortify,
Now, lying scattered as they fell,
An indiscreeter tale they tell:
Of that more soft and secret her
Whose daylong fortresses they were,
By fading warmth, by lingering print,
These now discarded scabbards hint.


A twofold change the ladies know:
First, in the morn the bugles blow,
And they, with floral hues and scents,
Man their beribboned battlements.
But let the stars appear, and they
Shed inhumanities away;
And from the changeling fashion see,
Through comic and through sweet degree,
In nature's toilet unsurpassed,
Forth leaps the laughing girl at last.








        Now When The Number Of My Years

NOW when the number of my years
Is all fulfilled, and I
From sedentary life
Shall rouse me up to die,
Bury me low and let me lie
Under the wide and starry sky.
Joying to live, I joyed to die,
Bury me low and let me lie.


Clear was my soul, my deeds were free,
Honour was called my name,
I fell not back from fear
Nor followed after fame.
Bury me low and let me lie
Under the wide and starry sky.
Joying to live, I joyed to die,
Bury me low and let me lie.


Bury me low in valleys green
And where the milder breeze
Blows fresh along the stream,
Sings roundly in the trees -
Bury me low and let me lie
Under the wide and starry sky.
Joying to live, I joyed to die,
Bury me low and let me lie.








        O Dull Cold Northern Sky

O DULL cold northern sky,
O brawling sabbath bells,
O feebly twittering Autumn bird that tells
The year is like to die!


O still, spoiled trees, O city ways,
O sun desired in vain,
O dread presentiment of coming rain
That cloys the sullen days!


Thee, heart of mine, I greet.
In what hard mountain pass
Striv'st thou? In what importunate morass
Sink now thy weary feet?


Thou run'st a hopeless race
To win despair. No crown
Awaits success, but leaden gods look down
On thee, with evil face.


And those that would befriend
And cherish thy defeat,
With angry welcome shall turn sour the sweet
Home-coming of the end.


Yea, those that offer praise
To idleness, shall yet
Insult thee, coming glorious in the sweat
Of honourable ways.








        On Now, Although The Year Be Done

ON now, although the year be done,
Now, although the love be dead,
Dead and gone;
Hear me, O loved and cherished one,
Give me still the hand that led,
Led me on.








        Over The Land Is April

OVER the land is April,
Over my heart a rose;
Over the high, brown mountain
The sound of singing goes.
Say, love, do you hear me,
Hear my sonnets ring?
Over the high, brown mountain,
Love, do you hear me sing?


By highway, love, and byway
The snows succeed the rose.
Over the high, brown mountain
The wind of winter blows.
Say, love, do you hear me,
Hear my sonnets ring?
Over the high, brown mountain
I sound the song of spring,
I throw the flowers of spring.
Do you hear the song of spring?
Hear you the songs of spring?








        Picture-Books In Winter

Summer fading, winter comes--
Frosty mornings, tingling thumbs,
Window robins, winter rooks,
And the picture story-books.


Water now is turned to stone
Nurse and I can walk upon;
Still we find the flowing brooks
In the picture story-books.


All the pretty things put by,
Wait upon the children's eye,
Sheep and shepherds, trees and crooks,
In the picture story-books.


We may see how all things are
Seas and cities, near and far,
And the flying fairies' looks,
In the picture story-books.


How am I to sing your praise,
Happy chimney-corner days,
Sitting safe in nursery nooks,
Reading picture story-books?








        Pirate Story

Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing,
Three of us abroad in the basket on the lea.
Winds are in the air, they are blowing in the spring,
And waves are on the meadow like the waves there are at sea.


Where shall we adventure, to-day that we're afloat,
Wary of the weather and steering by a star?
Shall it be to Africa, a-steering of the boat,
To Providence, or Babylon or off to Malabar?


Hi! but here's a squadron a-rowing on the sea--
Cattle on the meadow a-charging with a roar!
Quick, and we'll escape them, they're as mad as they can be,
The wicket is the harbour and the garden is the shore.







                
        Prayer

I ASK good things that I detest,
With speeches fair;
Heed not, I pray Thee, Lord, my breast,
But hear my prayer.


I say ill things I would not say -
Things unaware:
Regard my breast, Lord, in Thy day,
And not my prayer.


My heart is evil in Thy sight:
My good thoughts flee:
O Lord, I cannot wish aright -
Wish Thou for me.


O bend my words and acts to Thee,
However ill,
That I, whate'er I say or be,
May serve Thee still.


O let my thoughts abide in Thee
Lest I should fall:
Show me Thyself in all I see,
Thou Lord of all.








        Prelude

BY sunny market-place and street
Wherever I go my drum I beat,
And wherever I go in my coat of red
The ribbons flutter about my head.


I seek recruits for wars to come -
For slaughterless wars I beat the drum,
And the shilling I give to each new ally
Is hope to live and courage to die.


I know that new recruits shall come
Wherever I beat the sounding drum,
Till the roar of the march by country and town
Shall shake the tottering Dagons down.


For I was objectless as they
And loitering idly day by day;
But whenever I heard the recruiters come,
I left my all to follow the drum.







    
        Rain

The rain is raining all around,
It falls on field and tree,
It rains on the umbrellas here,
And on the ships at sea.








        Requiem

Under the wide and starry sky
Dig the grave and let me lie.
Glad did I live and gladly die,
And I laid me down with a will.


This be the verse you grave for me;
"Here he lies where he longed to be,
Home is the sailor, home from sea,
And the hunter home from the hill."








        Romance

I WILL make you brooches and toys for your delight
Of bird-song at morning and star-shine at night.
I will make a palace fit for you and me,
Of green days in forests and blue days at sea.


I will make my kitchen, and you shall keep your room,
Where white flows the river and bright blows the broom,
And you shall wash your linen and keep your body white
In rainfall at morning and dewfall at night.


And this shall be for music when no one else is near,
The fine song for singing, the rare song to hear!
That only I remember, that only you admire,
Of the broad road that stretches and the roadside fire.







            
        Shadow March

All around the house is the jet-black night;
It stares through the window-pane;
It crawls in the corners, hiding from the light,
And it moves with the moving flame.


Now my little heart goes a beating like a drum,
With the breath of the Bogies in my hair;
And all around the candle and the crooked shadows come,
And go marching along up the stair.


The shadow of the balusters, the shadow of the lamp,
The shadow of the child that goes to bed--
All the wicked shadows coming tramp, tramp, tramp,
With the black night overhead.







            
        Since Thou Hast Given Me This Good Hope, O God

SINCE thou hast given me this good hope, O God,
That while my footsteps tread the flowery sod
And the great woods embower me, and white dawn
And purple even sweetly lead me on
From day to day, and night to night, O God,
My life shall no wise miss the light of love;
But ever climbing, climb above
Man's one poor star, man's supine lands,
Into the azure steadfastness of death,
My life shall no wise lack the light of love,
My hands not lack the loving touch of hands;
But day by day, while yet I draw my breath,
And day by day, unto my last of years,
I shall be one that has a perfect friend.
Her heart shall taste my laughter and my tears,
And her kind eyes shall lead me to the end.







    
        Since Years Ago For Evermore

SINCE years ago for evermore
My cedar ship I drew to shore;
And to the road and riverbed
And the green, nodding reeds, I said
Mine ignorant and last farewell:
Now with content at home I dwell,
And now divide my sluggish life
Betwixt my verses and my wife:
In vain; for when the lamp is lit
And by the laughing fire I sit,
Still with the tattered atlas spread
Interminable roads I tread.








        Singing

Of speckled eggs the birdie sings
And nests among the trees;
The sailor sings of ropes and things
In ships upon the seas.


The children sing in far Japan,
The children sing in Spain;
The organ with the organ man
Is singing in the rain.








        Small Is The Trust When Love Is Green

SMALL is the trust when love is green
In sap of early years;
A little thing steps in between
And kisses turn to tears.


Awhile - and see how love be grown
In loveliness and power!
Awhile, it loves the sweets alone,
But next it loves the sour.


A little love is none at all
That wanders or that fears;
A hearty love dwells still at call
To kisses or to tears.


Such then be mine, my love to give,
And such be yours to take:-
A faith to hold, a life to live,
For lovingkindness' sake:


Should you be sad, should you be gay,
Or should you prove unkind,
A love to hold the growing way
And keep the helping mind:-


A love to turn the laugh on care
When wrinkled care appears,
And, with an equal will, to share
Your losses and your tears.








        So Live, So Love, So Use That Fragile Hour

SO live, so love, so use that fragile hour,
That when the dark hand of the shining power
Shall one from other, wife or husband, take,
The poor survivor may not weep and wake.








        Sonet Vi

As in the hostel by the bridge I sate,
Nailed with indifference fondly deemed complete,
And (O strange chance, more sorrowful than sweet)
The counterfeit of her that was my fate,
Dressed in like vesture, graceful and sedate,
Went quietly up the vacant village street,
The still small sound of her most dainty feet
Shook, like a trumpet blast, my soul's estate.
Instant revolt ran riot through my brain,
And all night long, thereafter, hour by hour,
The pageant of dead love before my eyes
Went proudly; and old hopes, broke loose again
From the restraint of wisely temperate power,
With ineffectual ardour sought to rise.







        
        Sonnet I

NOR judge me light, tho' light at times I seem,
And lightly in the stress of fortune bear
The innumerable flaws of changeful care -
Nor judge me light for this, nor rashly deem
(Office forbid to mortals, kept supreme
And separate the prerogative of God!)
That seaman idle who is borne abroad
To the far haven by the favouring stream.
Not he alone that to contrarious seas
Opposes, all night long, the unwearied oar,
Not he alone, by high success endeared,
Shall reach the Port; but, winged, with some light breeze
Shall they, with upright keels, pass in before
Whom easy Taste, the golden pilot, steered.







                
        Sonnet Ii

So shall this book wax like unto a well,
Fairy with mirrored flowers about the brim,
Or like some tarn that wailing curlews skim,
Glassing the sallow uplands or brown fell;
And so, as men go down into a dell
(Weary with noon) to find relief and shade,
When on the uneasy sick-bed we are laid,
We shall go down into thy book, and tell
The leaves, once blank, to build again for us
Old summer dead and ruined, and the time
Of later autumn with the corn in stook.
So shalt thou stint the meagre winter thus
Of his projected triumph, and the rime
Shall melt before the sunshine in thy book.







    
        Sonnet Iii

I have a hoard of treasure in my breast;
The grange of memory steams against the door,
Full of my bygone lifetime's garnered store -
Old pleasures crowned with sorrow for a zest,
Old sorrow grown a joy, old penance blest,
Chastened remembrance of the sins of yore
That, like a new evangel, more and more
Supports our halting will toward the best.
Ah! what to us the barren after years
May bring of joy or sorrow, who can tell?
O, knowing not, who cares? It may be well
That we shall find old pleasures and old fears,
And our remembered childhood seen thro' tears,
The best of Heaven and the worst of Hell.







    
        Sonnet V

Not undelightful, friend, our rustic ease
To grateful hearts; for by especial hap,
Deep nested in the hill's enormous lap,
With its own ring of walls and grove of trees,
Sits, in deep shelter, our small cottage - nor
Far-off is seen, rose carpeted and hung
With clematis, the quarry whence she sprung,
O mater pulchra filia pulchrior,
Whither in early spring, unharnessed folk,
We join the pairing swallows, glad to stay
Where, loosened in the hills, remote, unseen,
From its tall trees, it breathes a slender smoke
To heaven, and in the noon of sultry day
Stands, coolly buried, to the neck in green.







    
        Sonnet Vii

The strong man's hand, the snow-cool head of age,
The certain-footed sympathies of youth -
These, and that lofty passion after truth,
Hunger unsatisfied in priest or sage
Or the great men of former years, he needs
That not unworthily would dare to sing
(Hard task!) black care's inevitable ring
Settling with years upon the heart that feeds
Incessantly on glory. Year by year
The narrowing toil grows closer round his feet;
With disenchanting touch rude-handed time
The unlovely web discloses, and strange fear
Leads him at last to eld's inclement seat,
The bitter north of life - a frozen clime.







        
        Sonnet Viii

As Daniel, bird-alone, in that far land,
Kneeling in fervent prayer, with heart-sick eyes
Turned thro' the casement toward the westering skies;
Or as untamed Elijah, that red brand
Among the starry prophets; or that band
And company of Faithful sanctities
Who in all times, when persecutions rise,
Cherish forgotten creeds with fostering hand:
Such do ye seem to me, light-hearted crew,
O turned to friendly arts with all your will,
That keep a little chapel sacred still,
One rood of Holy-land in this bleak earth
Sequestered still (our homage surely due!)
To the twin Gods of mirthful wine and mirth.







            
        Soon Our Friends Perish

SOON our friends perish,
Soon all we cherish
Fades as days darken - goes as flowers go.
Soon in December
Over an ember,
Lonely we hearken, as loud winds blow.








        Spring Carol

WHEN loud by landside streamlets gush,
And clear in the greenwood quires the thrush,
With sun on the meadows
And songs in the shadows
Comes again to me
The gift of the tongues of the lea,
The gift of the tongues of meadows.


Straightway my olden heart returns
And dances with the dancing burns;
It sings with the sparrows;
To the rain and the (grimy) barrows
Sings my heart aloud -
To the silver-bellied cloud,
To the silver rainy arrows.


It bears the song of the skylark down,
And it hears the singing of the town;
And youth on the highways
And lovers in byways
Follows and sees:
And hearkens the song of the leas
And sings the songs of the highways.


So when the earth is alive with gods,
And the lusty ploughman breaks the sod,
And the grass sings in the meadows,
And the flowers smile in the shadows,
Sits my heart at ease,
Hearing the song of the leas,
Singing the songs of the meadows.







    
        Spring Song

THE air was full of sun and birds,
The fresh air sparkled clearly.
Remembrance wakened in my heart
And I knew I loved her dearly.


The fallows and the leafless trees
And all my spirit tingled.
My earliest thought of love, and Spring's
First puff of perfume mingled.


In my still heart the thoughts awoke,
Came lone by lone together -
Say, birds and Sun and Spring, is Love
A mere affair of weather?








        St. Martin's Summer

AS swallows turning backward
When half-way o'er the sea,
At one word's trumpet summons
They came again to me -
The hopes I had forgotten
Came back again to me.


I know not which to credit,
O lady of my heart!
Your eyes that bade me linger,
Your words that bade us part -
I know not which to credit,
My reason or my heart.


But be my hopes rewarded,
Or be they but in vain,
I have dreamed a golden vision,
I have gathered in the grain -
I have dreamed a golden vision,
I have not lived in vain.








        Still I Love To Rhyme

STILL I love to rhyme, and still more, rhyming, to wander
Far from the commoner way;
Old-time trills and falls by the brook-side still do I ponder,
Dreaming to-morrow to-day.


Come here, come, revive me, Sun-God, teach me, Apollo,
Measures descanted before;
Since I ancient verses, I emulous follow,
Prints in the marbles of yore.


Still strange, strange, they sound in old-young raiment invested,
Songs for the brain to forget -
Young song-birds elate to grave old temples benested
Piping and chirruping yet.


Thoughts? No thought has yet unskilled attempted to flutter
Trammelled so vilely in verse;
He who writes but aims at fame and his bread and his butter,
Won with a groan and a curse.







                        
        Stout Marches Lead To Certain Ends

STOUT marches lead to certain ends,
We seek no Holy Grail, my friends -
That dawn should find us every day
Some fraction farther on our way.


The dumb lands sleep from east to west,
They stretch and turn and take their rest.
The cock has crown in the steading-yard,
But priest and people slumber hard.


We two are early forth, and hear
The nations snoring far and near.
So peacefully their rest they take,
It seems we are the first awake!


- Strong heart! this is no royal way,
A thousand cross-roads seek the day;
And, hid from us, to left and right,
A thousand seekers seek the light.








        Strange Are The Ways Of Men

STRANGE are the ways of men,
And strange the ways of God!
We tread the mazy paths
That all our fathers trod.


We tread them undismayed,
And undismayed behold
The portents of the sky,
The things that were of old.


The fiery stars pursue
Their course in heav'n on high;
And round the 'leaguered town,
Crest-tossing heroes cry.


Crest-tossing heroes cry;
And martial fifes declare
How small, to mortal minds,
Is merely mortal care.


And to the clang of steel
And cry of piercing flute
Upon the azure peaks
A God shall plant his foot:


A God in arms shall stand,
And seeing wide and far
The green and golden earth,
The killing tide of war,


He, with uplifted arm,
Shall to the skies proclaim
The gleeful fate of man,
The noble road to fame!








        Summer Sun

Great is the sun, and wide he goes
Through empty heaven with repose;
And in the blue and glowing days
More thick than rain he showers his rays.


Though closer still the blinds we pull
To keep the shady parlour cool,
Yet he will find a chink or two
To slip his golden fingers through.


The dusty attic spider-clad
He, through the keyhole, maketh glad;
And through the broken edge of tiles
Into the laddered hay-loft smiles.


Meantime his golden face around
He bares to all the garden ground,
And sheds a warm and glittering look
Among the ivy's inmost nook.


Above the hills, along the blue,
Round the bright air with footing true,
To please the child, to paint the rose,
The gardener of the World, he goes.








        Swallows Travel To And Fro

SWALLOWS travel to and fro,
And the great winds come and go,
And the steady breezes blow,
Bearing perfume, bearing love.
Breezes hasten, swallows fly,
Towered clouds forever ply,
And at noonday, you and I
See the same sunshine above.


Dew and rain fall everywhere,
Harvests ripen, flowers are fair,
And the whole round earth is bare
To the moonshine and the sun;
And the live air, fanned with wings,
Bright with breeze and sunshine, brings
Into contact distant things,
And makes all the countries one.


Let us wander where we will,
Something kindred greets us still;
Something seen on vale or hill
Falls familiar on the heart;
So, at scent or sound or sight,
Severed souls by day and night
Tremble with the same delight -
Tremble, half the world apart.








        System

Every night my prayers I say,
And get my dinner every day;
And every day that I've been good,
I get an orange after food.


The child that is not clean and neat,
With lots of toys and things to eat,
He is a naughty child, I'm sure--
Or else his dear papa is poor.








        Tales Of Arabia

YES, friend, I own these tales of Arabia
Smile not, as smiled their flawless originals,
Age-old but yet untamed, for ages
Pass and the magic is undiminished.


Thus, friend, the tales of the old Camaralzaman,
Ayoub, the Slave of Love, or the Calendars,
Blind-eyed and ill-starred royal scions,
Charm us in age as they charmed in childhood.


Fair ones, beyond all numerability,
Beam from the palace, beam on humanity,
Bright-eyed, in truth, yet soul-less houris
Offering pleasure and only pleasure.


Thus they, the venal Muses Arabian,
Unlike, indeed, the nobler divinities,
Greek Gods or old time-honoured muses,
Easily proffer unloved caresses.


Lost, lost, the man who mindeth the minstrelsy;
Since still, in sandy, glittering pleasances,
Cold, stony fruits, gem-like but quite in-
Edible, flatter and wholly starve him.







    
        Tempest Tossed And Sore Afflicted

TEMPEST tossed and sore afflicted, sin defiled and care oppressed,
Come to me, all ye that labour; come, and I will give ye rest.
Fear no more, O doubting hearted; weep no more, O weeping eye!
Lo, the voice of your redeemer; lo, the songful morning near.


Here one hour you toil and combat, sin and suffer, bleed and die;
In my father's quiet mansion soon to lay your burden by.
Bear a moment, heavy laden, weary hand and weeping eye.
Lo, the feet of your deliverer; lo, the hour of freedom here.







                        
        The Angler Rose, He Took His Rod

THE angler rose, he took his rod,
He kneeled and made his prayers to God.
The living God sat overhead:
The angler tripped, the eels were fed








        The Bour-Tree Den

CLINKUM-CLANK in the rain they ride,
Down by the braes and the grey sea-side;
Clinkum-clank by stane and cairn,
Weary fa' their horse-shoe-airn!


Loud on the causey, saft on the sand,
Round they rade by the tail of the land;
Round and up by the Bour-Tree Den,
Weary fa' the red-coat men!


Aft hae I gane where they hae rade
And straigled in the gowden brooms -
Aft hae I gane, a saikless maid,
And O! sae bonny as the bour-tree blooms!


Wi' swords and guns they wanton there,
Wi' red, red coats and braw, braw plumes.
But I gaed wi' my gowden hair,
And O! sae bonny as the bour-tree blooms!


I ran, a little hempie lass,
In the sand and the bent grass,
Or took and kilted my small coats
To play in the beached fisher-boats.


I waded deep and I ran fast,
I was as lean as a lugger's mast,
I was as brown as a fisher's creel,
And I liked my life unco weel.


They blew a trumpet at the cross,
Some forty men, both foot and horse.
A'body cam to hear and see,
And wha, among the rest, but me.
My lips were saut wi' the saut air,
My face was brown, my feet were bare
The wind had ravelled my tautit hair,
And I thought shame to be standing there.





        Ae man there in the thick of the throng
Sat in his saddle, straight and strong.
I looked at him and he at me,
And he was a master-man to see.
. . . And who is this yin? and who is yon
That has the bonny lendings on?
That sits and looks sae braw and crouse?
. . . Mister Frank o' the Big House!


I gaed my lane beside the sea;
The wind it blew in bush and tree,
The wind blew in bush and bent:
Muckle I saw, and muckle kent!


Between the beach and the sea-hill
I sat my lane and grat my fill -
I was sae clarty and hard and dark,
And like the kye in the cow park!


There fell a battle far in the north;
The evil news gaed back and forth,
And back and forth by brae and bent
Hider and hunter cam and went:
The hunter clattered horse-shoe-airn
By causey-crest and hill-top cairn;
The hider, in by shag and shench,
Crept on his wame and little lench.


The eastland wind blew shrill and snell,
The stars arose, the gloaming fell,
The firelight shone in window and door
When Mr. Frank cam here to shore.
He hirpled up by the links and the lane,
And chappit laigh in the back-door-stane.
My faither gaed, and up wi' his han'!
. . . Is this Mr. Frank, or a beggarman?


I have mistrysted sair, he said,
But let me into fire and bed;
Let me in, for auld lang syne,
And give me a dram of the brandy wine.





        They hid him in the Bour-Tree Den,
And I thought it strange to gang my lane;
I thought it strange, I thought it sweet,
To gang there on my naked feet.
In the mirk night, when the boats were at sea,
I passed the burn abune the knee;
In the mirk night, when the folks were asleep,
I had a tryst in the den to keep.


Late and air', when the folks were asleep,
I had a tryst, a tryst to keep,
I had a lad that lippened to me,
And bour-tree blossom is fair to see!


O' the bour-tree leaves I busked his bed,
The mune was siller, the dawn was red:
Was nae man there but him and me -
And bour-tree blossom is fair to see!


Unco weather hae we been through:
The mune glowered, and the wind blew,
And the rain it rained on him and me,
And bour-tree blossom is fair to see!


Dwelling his lane but house or hauld,
Aft he was wet and aft was cauld;
I warmed him wi' my briest and knee -
And bour-tree blossom is fair to see!


There was nae voice of beast ae man,
But the tree soughed and the burn ran,
And we heard the ae voice of the sea:
Bour-tree blossom is fair to see!







    
        The Celestial Surgeon

IF I have faltered more or less
In my great task of happiness;
If I have moved among my race
And shown no glorious morning face;
If beams from happy human eyes
Have moved me not; if morning skies,
Books, and my food, and summer rain
Knocked on my sullen heart in vain:—
Lord, thy most pointed pleasure take
And stab my spirit broad awake;
Or, Lord, if too obdurate I,
Choose thou, before that spirit die,
A piercing pain, a killing sin,
And to my dead heart run them in.








        The Clock's Clear Voice Into The Clearer Air

THE cock's clear voice into the clearer air
Where westward far I roam,
Mounts with a thrill of hope,
Falls with a sigh of home.


A rural sentry, he from farm and field
The coming morn descries,
And, mankind's bugler, wakes
The camp of enterprise.


He sings the morn upon the westward hills
Strange and remote and wild;
He sings it in the land
Where once I was a child.


He brings to me dear voices of the past,
The old land and the years:
My father calls for me,
My weeping spirit hears.


Fife, fife, into the golden air, O bird,
And sing the morning in;
For the old days are past
And new days begin.








        The Cow

The friendly cow all red and white,
I love with all my heart:
She gives me cream with all her might,
To eat with apple-tart.


She wanders lowing here and there,
And yet she cannot stray,
All in the pleasant open air,
The pleasant light of day;


And   blown by all the winds that pass
And   wet with all the showers,
She   walks among the meadow grass
And   eats the meadow flowers.








        The Dumb Soldier

When the grass was closely mown,
Walking on the lawn alone,
In the turf a hole I found
And hid a soldier underground.


Spring and daisies came apace;
Grasses hid my hiding-place;
Grasses run like a green sea
O'er the lawn up to my knee.


Under grass alone he lies,
Looking up with leaden eyes,
Scarlet coat and pointed gun,
To the stars and to the sun.


When the grass is ripe like grain,
When the scythe is stoned again,
When the lawn is shaven clear,
Then my hole shall reappear.


I shall find   him, never fear,
I shall find   my grenadier;
But, for all   that's gone and come,
I shall find   my soldier dumb.


He has lived, a little thing,
In the grassy woods of spring;
Done, if he could tell me true,
Just as I should like to do.


He has seen the starry hours
And the springing of the flowers;
And the fairy things that pass
In the forests of the grass.


In the silence he has heard
Talking bee and ladybird,
And the butterfly has flown
O'er him as he lay alone.



        Not a word will he disclose,
Not a word of all he knows.
I must lay him on the shelf,
And make up the tale myself.








        The Far-Farers

THE broad sun,
The bright day:
White sails
On the blue bay:
The far-farers
Draw away.


Light the fires
And close the door.
To the old homes,
To the loved shore,
The far-farers
Return no more.








       




                                
        The Flowers

All the names I know from nurse:
Gardener's garters, Shepherd's purse,
Bachelor's buttons, Lady's smock,
And the Lady Hollyhock.


Fairy places, fairy things,
Fairy woods where the wild bee wings,
Tiny trees for tiny dames--
These must all be fairy names!


Tiny woods below whose boughs
Shady fairies weave a house;
Tiny tree-tops, rose or thyme,
Where the braver fairies climb!


Fair are grown-up people's trees,
But the fairest woods are these;
Where, if I were not so tall,
I should live for good and all.








        The Gardener

The gardener does not love to talk,
He makes me keep the gravel walk;
And when he puts his tools away,
He locks the door and takes the key.


Away behind the currant row
Where no one else but cook may go,
Far in the plots, I see him dig
Old and serious, brown and big.


He digs the flowers, green, red and blue,
Nor wishes to be spoken to.
He digs the flowers and cuts the hay,
And never seems to want to play.


Silly gardener! summer goes,
And winter comes with pinching toes,
When in the garden bare and brown
You must lay your barrow down.


Well now, and while the summer stays
To profit by these garden days
O how much wiser you would be
To play at Indian wars with me!








        The Hayloft

Through all the pleasant meadow-side
The grass grew shoulder-high,
Till the shining scythes went far and wide
And cut it down to dry.


Those green and sweetly smelling crops
They led the waggons home;
And they piled them here in mountain tops
For mountaineers to roam.


Here is Mount Clear, Mount Rusty-Nail,
Mount Eagle and Mount High;--
The mice that in these mountains dwell,
No happier are than I!


Oh, what a joy to clamber there,
Oh, what a place for play,
With the sweet, the dim, the dusty air,
The happy hills of hay!








         




                    
        The Land Of Counterpane

When I was sick and lay a-bed,
I had two pillows at my head,
And all my toys beside me lay,
To keep me happy all the day.


And sometimes for an hour or so
I watched my leaden soldiers go,
With different uniforms and drills,
Among the bed-clothes, through the hills;


And sometimes sent my ships in fleets
All up and down among the sheets;
Or brought my trees and houses out,
And planted cities all about.


I was the giant great and still
That sits upon the pillow-hill,
And sees before him, dale and plain,
The pleasant land of counterpane.








        The Land Of Nod

From breakfast on through all the day
At home among my friends I stay,
But every night I go abroad
Afar into the land of Nod.


All by myself I have to go,
With none to tell me what to do --
All alone beside the streams
And up the mountain-sides of dreams.


The strangest things are there for me,
Both things to eat and things to see,
And many frightening sights abroad
Till morning in the land of Nod.


Try as I like to find the way,
I never can get back by day,
Nor can remember plain and clear
The curious music that I hear.








        The Land Of Story-Books

At evening when the lamp is lit,
Around the fire my parents sit;
They sit at home and talk and sing,
And do not play at anything.


Now, with my little gun, I crawl
All in the dark along the wall,
And follow round the forest track
Away behind the sofa back.


There, in the night, where none can spy,
All in my hunter's camp I lie,
And play at books that I have read
Till it is time to go to bed.


These are the hills, these are the woods,
These are my starry solitudes;
And there the river by whose brink
The roaring lions come to drink.


I see the others far away
As if in firelit camp they lay,
And I, like to an Indian scout,
Around their party prowled about.


So when my nurse comes in for me,
Home I return across the sea,
And go to bed with backward looks
At my dear land of Story-books.








        The Light Keeper

The brilliant kernel of the night,
The flaming lightroom circles me:
I sit within a blaze of light


Held high above the dusky sea.
Far off the surf doth break and roar
Along bleak miles of moonlit shore,


Where through the tides the tumbling wave
Falls in an avalanche of foam
And drives its churned waters home
Up many an undercliff and cave.








        The Little Land

When at home alone I sit
And am very tired of it,
I have just to shut my eyes
To go sailing through the skies--
To go sailing far away
To the pleasant Land of Play;
To the fairy land afar
Where the Little People are;
Where the clover-tops are trees,
And the rain-pools are the seas,
And the leaves, like little ships,
Sail about on tiny trips;
And above the Daisy tree
Through the grasses,
High o'erhead the Bumble Bee
Hums and passes.


In that forest to and fro
I can wander, I can go;
See the spider and the fly,
And the ants go marching by,
Carrying parcels with their feet
Down the green and grassy street.
I can in the sorrel sit
Where the ladybird alit.
I can climb the jointed grass
And on high
See the greater swallows pass
In the sky,
And the round sun rolling by
Heeding no such things as I.


Through that forest I can pass
Till, as in a looking-glass,
Humming fly and daisy tree
And my tiny self I see,
Painted very clear and neat
On the rain-pool at my feet.
Should a leaflet come to land



        Drifting near to where I stand,
Straight I'll board that tiny boat
Round the rain-pool sea to float.


Little thoughtful creatures sit
On the grassy coasts of it;
Little things with lovely eyes
See me sailing with surprise.
Some are clad in armour green--
(These have sure to battle been!)--
Some are pied with ev'ry hue,
Black and crimson, gold and blue;
Some have wings and swift are gone;--
But they all look kindly on.


When my eyes I once again
Open, and see all things plain:
High bare walls, great bare floor;
Great big knobs on drawer and door;
Great big people perched on chairs,
Stitching tucks and mending tears,
Each a hill that I could climb,
And talking nonsense all the time--
O dear me,
That I could be
A sailor on a the rain-pool sea,
A climber in the clover tree,
And just come back a sleepy-head,
Late at night to go to bed.








        The Mirror Speaks

Where the bells peal far at sea
Cunning fingers fashioned me.
There on palace walls I hung
While that Consuelo sung;
But I heard, though I listened well,
Never a note, never a trill,
Never a beat of the chiming bell.
There I hung and looked, and there
In my grey face, faces fair
Shone from under shining hair.
Well, I saw the poising head,
But the lips moved and nothing said;
And when lights were in the hall,
Silent moved the dancers all.
So awhile I glowed, and then
Fell on dusty days and men;
Long I slumbered packed in straw,
Long I none but dealers saw;
Till before my silent eye
On that sees came passing by.
Now with an outlandish grace,
To the sparkling fire I face
In the blue room at Skerryvore;
Where I wait until the door
Open, and the Prince of Men,
Henry James, shall come again.








        The Moon

The moon has a face like the clock in the hall;
She shines on thieves on the garden wall,
On streets and fields and harbour quays,
And birdies asleep in the forks of the trees.


The squalling cat and the squeaking mouse,
The howling dog by the door of the house,
The bat that lies in bed at noon,
All love to be out by the light of the moon.


But all of the things that belong to the day
Cuddle to sleep to be out of her way;
And flowers and children close their eyes
Till up in the morning the sun shall arise.







    
        The Old Chimaeras. Old Recipts

THE old Chimaeras, old receipts
For making "happy land,"
The old political beliefs
Swam close before my hand.


The grand old communistic myths
In a middle state of grace,
Quite dead, but not yet gone to Hell,
And walking for a space,


Quite dead, and looking it, and yet
All eagerness to show
The Social-Contract forgeries
By Chatterton - Rousseau -


A hundred such as these I tried,
And hundreds after that,
I fitted Social Theories
As one would fit a hat!


Full many a marsh-fire lured me on,
I reached at many a star,
I reached and grasped them and behold -
The stump of a cigar!


All through the sultry sweltering day
The sweat ran down my brow,
The still plains heard my distant strokes
That have been silenced now.


This way and that, now up, now down,
I hailed full many a blow.
Alas! beneath my weary arm
The thicket seemed to grow.


I take the lesson, wipe my brow
And throw my axe aside,
And, sorely wearied, I go home
In the tranquil eventide.



        And soon the rising moon, that lights
The eve of my defeat,
Shall see me sitting as of yore
By my old master's feet.








        The Piper

AGAIN I hear you piping, for I know the tune so well, -
You rouse the heart to wander and be free,
Tho' where you learned your music, not the God of song can tell,
For you pipe the open highway and the sea.
O piper, lightly footing, lightly piping on your way,
Tho' your music thrills and pierces far and near,
I tell you you had better pipe to someone else to-day,
For you cannot pipe my fancy from my dear.


You sound the note of travel through the hamlet and the town;
You would lure the holy angels from on high;
And not a man can hear you, but he throws the hammer down
And is off to see the countries ere he die.
But now no more I wander, now unchanging here I stay;
By my love, you find me safely sitting here:
And pipe you ne'er so sweetly, till you pipe the hills away,
You can never pipe my fancy from my dear.







                    
        The Relic Taken, What Avails The Shrine?

THE relic taken, what avails the shrine?
The locket, pictureless? O heart of mine,
Art thou not worse than that,
Still warm, a vacant nest where love once sat?


Her image nestled closer at my heart
Than cherished memories, healed every smart
And warmed it more than wine
Or the full summer sun in noon-day shine.


This was the little weather gleam that lit
The cloudy promontories - the real charm was
That gilded hills and woods
And walked beside me thro' the solitudes.


The sun is set. My heart is widowed now
Of that companion-thought. Alone I plough
The seas of life, and trace
A separate furrow far from her and grace.







    
        The Sick Child

CHILD.
O Mother, lay your hand on my brow!
O mother, mother, where am I now?
Why is the room so gaunt and great?
Why am I lying awake so late?


MOTHER.
Fear not at all: the night is still.
Nothing is here that means you ill -
Nothing but lamps the whole town through,
And never a child awake but you.


CHILD.
Mother, mother, speak low in my ear,
Some of the things are so great and near,
Some are so small and far away,
I have a fear that I cannot say,
What have I done, and what do I fear,
And why are you crying, mother dear?


MOTHER.
Out in the city, sounds begin
Thank the kind God, the carts come in!
An hour or two more, and God is so kind,
The day shall be blue in the window-blind,
Then shall my child go sweetly asleep,
And dream of the birds and the hills of sheep.







    
        The Spaewife

OH, I wad like to ken—to the beggar-wife says I—
Why chops are guid to brander and nane sae guid to fry.
An’ siller, that ’s sae braw to keep, is brawer still to gi’e.
It ’s gey an’ easy spierin’, says the beggar-wife to me.


Oh, I wad like to ken—to the beggar-wife says I—
Hoo a’things come to be whaur we find them when we try,
The lasses in their claes an’ the fishes in the sea.
It ’s gey an’ easy spierin’, says the beggar-wife to me.


Oh, I wad like to ken—to the beggar-wife says I—
Why lads are a’ to sell an’lasses a’ to buy;
An’ naebody for dacency but barely twa or three.
It ’s gey an’ easy spierin’, says the beggar-wife to me.


Oh, I wad like to ken—to the beggar-wife says I—
Gin death’s as shure to men as killin’ is to kye,
Why God has filled the yearth sae fu’ o’ tasty things to pree.
It ’s gey an’ easy spierin’, says the beggar-wife to me.


Oh, I wad like to ken—to the beggar-wife says I—
The reason o’ the cause an’ the wherefore o’ the why,
Wi’ mony anither riddle brings the tear into my e’e.
It ’s gey an’ easy spierin’, says the beggar-wife to me.







                    
        The Summer Sun Shone Round Me

THE summer sun shone round me,
The folded valley lay
In a stream of sun and odour,
That sultry summer day.


The tall trees stood in the sunlight
As still as still could be,
But the deep grass sighed and rustled
And bowed and beckoned me.


The deep grass moved and whispered
And bowed and brushed my face.
It whispered in the sunshine:
"The winter comes apace."








        The Sun Travels

The sun is not a-bed, when I
At night upon my pillow lie;
Still round the earth his way he takes,
And morning after morning makes.


While here at home, in shining day,
We round the sunny garden play,
Each little Indian sleepy-head
Is being kissed and put to bed.


And when at eve I rise from tea,
Day dawns beyond the Atlantic Sea;
And all the children in the west
Are getting up and being dressed.








        The Swing

How do you like to go up in a swing,
Up in the air so blue?
Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing
Ever a child can do!


Up in the air and over the wall,
Till I can see so wide,
River and trees and cattle and all
Over the countryside--


Till I look down on the garden green,
Down on the roof so brown--
Up in the air I go flying again,
Up in the air and down!








        The Unseen Playmate

When children are playing alone on the green,
In comes the playmate that never was seen.
When children are happy and lonely and good,
The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.


Nobody heard him, and nobody saw,
His is a picture you never could draw,
But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home,
When children are happy and playing alone.


He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass,
He sings when you tinkle the musical glass;
Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why,
The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!


He loves to be little, he hates to be big,
'T is he that inhabits the caves that you dig;
'T is he when you play with your soldiers of tin
That sides with the Frenchmen and never can win.


'T is he, when at night you go off to your bed,
Bids you go to sleep and not trouble your head;
For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf,
'T is he will take care of your playthings himself!







        
        The Vagabond

Give to me the life I love,
Let the lave go by me,
Give the jolly heaven above
And the byway nigh me.
Bed in the bush with stars to see,
Bread I dip in the river -
There's the life for a man like me,
There's the life for ever.


Let the blow fall soon or late,
Let what will be o'er me;
Give the face of earth around
And the road before me.
Wealth I seek not, hope nor love,
Nor a friend to know me;
All I seek, the heaven above
And the road below me.


Or let autumn fall on me
Where afield I linger,
Silencing the bird on tree,
Biting the blue finger.
White as meal the frosty field -
Warm the fireside haven -
Not to autumn will I yield,
Not to winter even!


Let the blow fall soon or late,
Let what will be o'er me;
Give the face of earth around,
And the road before me.
Wealth I ask not, hope nor love,
Nor a friend to know me;
All I ask, the heaven above
And the road below me.








        The Vanquished Knight

I HAVE left all upon the shameful field,
Honour and Hope, my God, and all but life;
Spurless, with sword reversed and dinted shield,
Degraded and disgraced, I leave the strife.


From him that hath not, shall there not be taken
E'en that he hath, when he deserts the strife?
Life left by all life's benefits forsaken,
O keep the promise, Lord, and take the life.







    
        The Wind

I saw you toss the kites on high
And blow the birds about the sky;
And all around I heard you pass,
Like ladies' skirts across the grass--
O wind, a-blowing all day long,
O wind, that sings so loud a song!


I saw the different things you did,
But always you yourself you hid.
I felt you push, I heard you call,
I could not see yourself at all--
O wind, a-blowing all day long,
O wind, that sings so loud a song!


O you that are so strong and cold,
O blower, are you young or old?
Are you a beast of field and tree,
Or just a stronger child than me?
O wind, a-blowing all day long,
O wind, that sings so loud a song!








        The Wind Blew Shrill And Smart

THE wind blew shrill and smart,
And the wind awoke my heart
Again to go a-sailing o'er the sea,
To hear the cordage moan
And the straining timbers groan,
And to see the flying pennon lie a-lee.


O sailor of the fleet,
It is time to stir the feet!
It's time to man the dingy and to row!
It's lay your hand in mine
And it's empty down the wine,
And it's drain a health to death before we go!


To death, my lads, we sail;
And it's death that blows the gale
And death that holds the tiller as we ride.
For he's the king of all
In the tempest and the squall,
And the ruler of the Ocean wild and wide!







    
        The Wind Is Without There And Howls In The Trees

THE wind is without there and howls in the trees,
And the rain-flurries drum on the glass:
Alone by the fireside with elbows on knees
I can number the hours as they pass.
Yet now, when to cheer me the crickets begin,
And my pipe is just happily lit,
Believe me, my friend, tho' the evening draws in,
That not all uncontested I sit.


Alone, did I say? O no, nowise alone
With the Past sitting warm on my knee,
To gossip of days that are over and gone,
But still charming to her and to me.
With much to be glad of and much to deplore,
Yet, as these days with those we compare,
Believe me, my friend, tho' the sorrows seem more
They are somehow more easy to bear.


And thou, faded Future, uncertain and frail,
As I cherish thy light in each draught,
His lamp is not more to the miner - their sail
Is not more to the crew on the raft.
For Hope can make feeble ones earnest and brave,
And, as forth thro' the years I look on,
Believe me, my friend, between this and the grave,
I see wonderful things to be done.


To do or to try; and, believe me, my friend,
If the call should come early for me,
I can leave these foundations uprooted, and tend
For some new city over the sea.
To do or to try; and if failure be mine,
And if Fortune go cross to my plan,
Believe me, my friend, tho' I mourn the design
I shall never lament for the man.







        
        There Was An Old Man Of The Cape

There was an old man of the Cape
Who made himself garments of crepe.
When asked, &quot;Do they tear?&quot;
He replied, &quot;Here and there,
But they're perfectly splendid for shape!&quot;







    
        This Gloomy Northern Day

THIS gloomy northern day,
Or this yet gloomier night,
Has moved a something high
In my cold heart; and I,
That do not often pray,
Would pray to-night.


And first on Thee I call
For bread, O God of might!
Enough of bread for all, -
That through the famished town
Cold hunger may lie down
With none to-night.


I pray for hope no less,
Strong-sinewed hope, O Lord,
That to the struggling young
May preach with brazen tongue
Stout Labour, high success,
And bright reward.


And last, O Lord, I pray
For hearts resigned and bold
To trudge the dusty way -
Hearts stored with song and joke
And warmer than a cloak
Against the cold.


If nothing else he had,
He who has this, has all.
This comforts under pain;
This, through the stinging rain,
Keeps ragamuffin glad
Behind the wall.


This makes the sanded inn
A palace for a Prince,
And this, when griefs begin
And cruel fate annoys,



        Can bring to mind the joys
Of ages since.








        Thou Strainest Through The Mountain Fern

THOU strainest through the mountain fern,
A most exiguously thin Burn.
For all thy foam, for all thy din,
Thee shall the pallid lake inurn,
With well-a-day for Mr. Swin-Burne!
Take then this quarto in thy fin
And, O thou stoker huge and stern,
The whole affair, outside and in,
Burn!
But save the true poetic kin,
The works of Mr. Robert Burn'
And William Wordsworth upon Tin-Tern!








        Though Deep Indifference Should Drowse

THOUGH deep indifference should drowse
The sluggish life beneath my brows,
And all the external things I see
Grow snow-showers in the street to me,
Yet inmost in my stormy sense
Thy looks shall be an influence.


Though other loves may come and go
And long years sever us below,
Shall the thin ice that grows above
Freeze the deep centre-well of love?
No, still below light amours, thou
Shalt rule me as thou rul'st me now.


Year following year shall only set
Fresh gems upon thy coronet;
And Time, grown lover, shall delight
To beautify thee in my sight;
And thou shalt ever rule in me
Crowned with the light of memory.








        Time To Rise

A birdie with a yellow bill
Hopped upon my window sill,
Cocked his shining eye and said:
"Ain't you 'shamed, you sleepy-head!"








        To Alison Cunningham, From Her Boy

For the long nights you lay awake
And watched for my unworthy sake:
For your most comfortable hand
That led me through the uneven land:
For all the story-books you read:
For all the pains you comforted:


For all you pitied, all you bore,
In sad and happy days of yore:-
My second Mother, my first Wife,
The angel of my infant life-
From the sick child, now well and old,
Take, nurse, the little book you hold!


And grant it, Heaven, that all who read
May find as dear a nurse at need,
And every child who lists my rhyme,
In the bright, fireside, nursery clime,
May hear it in as kind a voice
As made my childish days rejoice!








        To All That Love The Far And Blue

TO all that love the far and blue:
Whether, from dawn to eve, on foot
The fleeing corners ye pursue,
Nor weary of the vain pursuit;
Or whether down the singing stream,
Paddle in hand, jocund ye shoot,
To splash beside the splashing bream
Or anchor by the willow root:


Or, bolder, from the narrow shore
Put forth, that cedar ark to steer,
Among the seabirds and the roar
Of the great sea, profound and clear;
Or, lastly if in heart ye roam,
Not caring to do else, and hear,
Safe sitting by the fire at home,
Footfalls in Utah or Pamere:


Though long the way, though hard to bear
The sun and rain, the dust and dew;
Though still attainment and despair
Inter the old, despoil the new;
There shall at length, be sure, O friends,
Howe'er ye steer, whate'er ye do -
At length, and at the end of ends,
The golden city come in view.








        To Any Reader

As from the house your mother sees
You playing round the garden trees,
So you may see, if you will look
Through the windows of this book,
Another child, far, far away,
And in another garden, play.
But do not think you can at all,
By knocking on the window, call
That child to hear you. He intent
Is all on his play-business bent.
He does not hear; he will not look,
Nor yet be lured out of this book.
For, long ago, the truth to say,
He has grown up and gone away,
And it is but a child of air
That lingers in the garden there.








        To Auntie

"Chief of our aunts"--not only I,
But all your dozen of nurselings cry--
"What did the other children do?
And what were childhood, wanting you?"








        To Charles Baxter

OUR Johnie's deid. The mair's the pity!
He's deid, an' deid o' Aqua-vitae.
O Embro', you're a shrunken city,
Noo Johnie's deid!
Tak hands, an' sing a burial ditty
Ower Johnie's heid.


To see him was baith drink an' meat,
Gaun linkin' glegly up the street.
He but to rin or tak a seat,
The wee bit body!
Bein' aye unsicken on his feet
Wi' whusky toddy.


To be aye tosh was Johnie's whim,
There's nane was better teut than him,
Though whiles his gravit-knot wad clim'
Ahint his ear,
An' whiles he'd buttons oot or in
The less ae mair.


His hair a' lang about his bree,
His tap-lip lang by inches three -
A slockened sort 'mon,' to pree
A' sensuality -
A droutly glint was in his e'e
An' personality.


An' day an' nicht, frae daw to daw,
Dink an' perjink an' doucely braw,
Wi' a kind o' Gospel ower a',
May or October,
Like Peden, followin' the Law
An' no that sober.


Whusky an' he were pack thegether.
Whate'er the hour, whate'er the weather,
John kept himsel' wi' mistened leather
An' kindled spunk.



        Wi' him, there was nae askin' whether -
John was aye drunk.


The auncient heroes gash an' bauld
In the uncanny days of auld,
The task ance fo(u)nd to which th'were called,
Stack stenchly to it.
His life sic noble lives recalled,
Little's he knew it.


Single an' straucht, he went his way.
He kept the faith an' played the play.
Whusky an' he were man an' may
Whate'er betided.
Bonny in life - in death - this twae
Were no' divided.


An' wow! but John was unco sport.
Whiles he wad smile about the Court
Malvolio-like - whiles snore an' snort
Was heard afar.
The idle winter lads' resort
Was aye John's bar.


What's merely humorous or bonny
The Worl' regairds wi' cauld astony.
Drunk men tak' aye mair place than ony;
An' sae, ye see,
The gate was aye ower thrang for Johnie -
Or you an' me.


John micht hae jingled cap an' bells,
Been a braw fule in silks an' pells,
In ane o' the auld worl's canty hells
Paris or Sodom.
I wadnae had him naething else
But Johnie Adam.


He suffered - as have a' that wan
Eternal memory frae man,
Since e'er the weary worl' began -
Mister or Madam,


    
        Keats or Scots Burns, the Spanish Don
Or Johnie Adam.


We leuch, an' Johnie deid. An' fegs!
Hoo he had keept his stoiterin' legs
Sae lang's he did's a fact that begs
An explanation.
He stachers fifty years - syne plegs
To's destination.








        To Friends At Home

TO friends at home, the lone, the admired, the lost
The gracious old, the lovely young, to May
The fair, December the beloved,
These from my blue horizon and green isles,
These from this pinnacle of distances I,
The unforgetful, dedicate.







        
        To Madame Garschine

WHAT is the face, the fairest face, till Care,
Till Care the graver - Care with cunning hand,
Etches content thereon and makes it fair,
Or constancy, and love, and makes it grand?







    
        To Marcus

YOU have been far, and I
Been farther yet,
Since last, in foul or fair
An impecunious pair,
Below this northern sky
Of ours, we met.


Now winter night shall see
Again us two,
While howls the tempest higher,
Sit warmly by the fire
And dream and plan, as we
Were wont to do.


And, hand in hand, at large
Our thoughts shall walk
While storm and gusty rain,
Again and yet again,
Shall drive their noisy charge
Across the talk.


The pleasant future still
Shall smile to me,
And hope with wooing hands
Wave on to fairy lands
All over dale and hill
And earth and sea.


And you who doubt the sky
And fear the sun -
You - Christian with the pack -
You shall not wander back
For I am Hopeful - I
Will cheer you on.


Come - where the great have trod,
The great shall lead -
Come, elbow through the press,
Pluck Fortune by the dress -



        By God, we must - by God,
We shall succeed.








        To Mesdames Zassetsky And Garschine

THE wind may blaw the lee-gang way
And aye the lift be mirk an' gray,
An deep the moss and steigh the brae
Where a' maun gang -
There's still an hoor in ilka day
For luve and sang.


And canty hearts are strangely steeled.
By some dikeside they'll find a bield,
Some couthy neuk by muir or field
They're sure to hit,
Where, frae the blatherin' wind concealed,
They'll rest a bit.


An' weel for them if kindly fate
Send ower the hills to them a mate;
They'll crack a while o' kirk an' State,
O' yowes an' rain:
An' when it's time to take the gate,
Tak' ilk his ain.


- Sic neuk beside the southern sea
I soucht - sic place o' quiet lee
Frae a' the winds o' life. To me,
Fate, rarely fair,
Had set a freendly company
To meet me there.


Kindly by them they gart me sit,
An' blythe was I to bide a bit.
Licht as o' some hame fireside lit
My life for me.
- Ower early maun I rise an' quit
This happy lee.








        To Minnie

The red room with the giant bed
Where none but elders laid their head;
The little room where you and I
Did for awhile together lie
And, simple, suitor, I your hand
In decent marriage did demand;
The great day nursery, best of all,
With pictures pasted on the wall
And leaves upon the blind--
A pleasant room wherein to wake
And hear the leafy garden shake
And rustle in the wind--
And pleasant there to lie in bed
And see the pictures overhead--
The wars about Sebastopol,
The grinning guns along the wall,
The daring escalade,
The plunging ships, the bleating sheep,
The happy children ankle-deep
And laughing as they wade:
All these are vanished clean away,
And the old manse is changed to-day;
It wears an altered face
And shields a stranger race.
The river, on from mill to mill,
Flows past our childhood's garden still;
But ah! we children never more
Shall watch it from the water-door!
Below the yew--it still is there--
Our phantom voices haunt the air
As we were still at play,
And I can hear them call and say:
"How far is it to Babylon?"


Ah, far enough, my dear,
Far, far enough from here--
Smiling and kind, you grace a shelf
Too high for me to reach myself.
Reach down a hand, my dear, and take



        These rhymes for old acquaintance' sake!
Yet you have farther gone!
"Can I get there by candlelight?"
So goes the old refrain.
I do not know--perchance you might--
But only, children, hear it right,
Ah, never to return again!
The eternal dawn, beyond a doubt,
Shall break on hill and plain,
And put all stars and candles out
Ere we be young again.


To you in distant India, these
I send across the seas,
Nor count it far across.
For which of us forget
The Indian cabinets,
The bones of antelope, the wings of albatross,
The pied and painted birds and beans,
The junks and bangles, beads and screens,
The gods and sacred bells,
And the load-humming, twisted shells!
The level of the parlour floor
Was honest, homely, Scottish shore;
But when we climbed upon a chair,
Behold the gorgeous East was there!
Be this a fable; and behold
Me in the parlour as of old,
And Minnie just above me set
In the quaint Indian cabinet!







    
        To Miss Cornish

THEY tell me, lady, that to-day
On that unknown Australian strand -
Some time ago, so far away -
Another lady joined the band.
She joined the company of those
Lovelily dowered, nobly planned,
Who, smiling, still forgive their foes
And keep their friends in close command.


She, lady, as I learn, was one
Among the many rarely good;
And destined still to be a sun
Through every dark and rainy mood:-
She, as they told me, far had come,
By sea and land, o'er many a rood:-
Admired by all, beloved by some,
She was yourself, I understood.


But, compliment apart and free
From all constraint of verses, may
Goodness and honour, grace and glee,
Attend you ever on your way -
Up to the measure of your will,
Beyond all power of mine to say -
As she and I desire you still,
Miss Cornish, on your natal day.








        To Mrs. Macmarland

IN Schnee der Alpen - so it runs
To those divine accords - and here
We dwell in Alpine snows and suns,
A motley crew, for half the year:
A motley crew, we dwell to taste -
A shivering band in hope and fear -
That sun upon the snowy waste,
That Alpine ether cold and clear.


Up from the laboured plains, and up
From low sea-levels, we arise
To drink of that diviner cup
The rarer air, the clearer skies;
For, as the great, old, godly King
From mankind's turbid valley cries,
So all we mountain-lovers sing:
I to the hills will lift mine eyes.


The bells that ring, the peaks that climb,
The frozen snow's unbroken curd
Might yet revindicate in rhyme
The pauseless stream, the absent bird.
In vain - for to the deeps of life
You, lady, you my heart have stirred;
And since you say you love my life,
Be sure I love you for the word.


Of kindness, here I nothing say -
Such loveless kindnesses there are
In that grimacing, common way,
That old, unhonoured social war.
Love but my dog and love my love,
Adore with me a common star -
I value not the rest above
The ashes of a bad cigar.








        To Mrs. Will. H. Low.

Even in the bluest noonday of July,
There could not run the smallest breath of wind
But all the quarter sounded like a wood;
And in the chequered silence and above
The hum of city cabs that sought the Bois,
Suburban ashes shivered into song.
A patter and a chatter and a chirp
And a long dying hiss - it was as though
Starched old brocaded dames through all the house
Had trailed a strident skirt, or her whole sky
Even in a wink had over-brimmed in rain.
Hark, in these shady parlours, how it talks
Of the near autumn, how the smitten ash
Trembles and augurs floods! O not too long
In these inconstant latitudes delay,
O not too late from the unbeloved north
Trim your escape! For soon shall this low roof
Resound indeed with rain, soon shall your eyes
Search the foul garden, search the darkened rooms,
Nor find one jewel but the blazing log.







        
        To My Mother

You too, my mother, read my rhymes
For love of unforgotten times,
And you may chance to hear once more
The little feet along the floor.








        To My Name-Child




Some day soon this rhyming volume, if you learn with proper speed,
Little Louis Sanchez, will be given you to read.
Then you shall discover, that your name was printed down
By the English printers, long before, in London town.


In the great and busy city where the East and West are met,
All the little letters did the English printer set;
While you thought of nothing, and were still too young to play,
Foreign people thought of you in places far away.


Ay, and when you slept, a baby, over all the English lands
Other little children took the volume in their hands;
Other children questioned, in their homes across the seas:
Who was little Louis, won't you tell us, mother, please?





Now that you have spelt your lesson, lay it down and go and play,
Seeking shells and seaweed on the sands of Monterey,
Watching all the mighty whalebones, lying buried by the breeze,
Tiny sandpipers, and the huge Pacific seas.


And remember in your playing, as the sea-fog rolls to you,
Long ere you could read it, how I told you what to do;
And that while you thought of no one, nearly half the world away
Some one thought of Louis on the beach of Monterey!







                        
        To N. V. De G. S.

THE UNFATHOMABLE sea, and time, and tears,
The deeds of heroes and the crimes of kings
Dispart us; and the river of events
Has, for an age of years, to east and west
More widely borne our cradles. Thou to me
Art foreign, as when seamen at the dawn
Descry a land far off and know not which.
So I approach uncertain; so I cruise
Round thy mysterious islet, and behold
Surf and great mountains and loud river-bars,
And from the shore hear inland voices call.
Strange is the seaman’s heart; he hopes, he fears;
Draws closer and sweeps wider from that coast;
Last, his rent sail refits, and to the deep
His shattered prow uncomforted puts back.
Yet as he goes he ponders at the helm
Of that bright island; where he feared to touch,
His spirit readventures; and for years,
Where by his wife he slumbers safe at home,
Thoughts of that land revisit him; he sees
The eternal mountains beckon, and awakes
Yearning for that far home that might have been.







        
        To Ottilie

YOU remember, I suppose,
How the August sun arose,
And how his face
Woke to trill and carolette
All the cages that were set
About the place.


In the tender morning light
All around lay strange and bright
And still and sweet,
And the gray doves unafraid
Went their morning promenade
Along the street.








        To Rosabelle

WHEN my young lady has grown great and staid,
And in long raiment wondrously arrayed,
She may take pleasure with a smile to know
How she delighted men-folk long ago.
For her long after, then, this tale I tell
Of the two fans and fairy Rosabelle.
Hot was the day; her weary sire and I
Sat in our chairs companionably nigh,
Each with a headache sat her sire and I.


Instant the hostess waked: she viewed the scene,
Divined the giants' languor by their mien,
And with hospitable care
Tackled at once an Atlantean chair.
Her pigmy stature scarce attained the seat -
She dragged it where she would, and with her feet
Surmounted; thence, a Phaeton launched, she crowned
The vast plateau of the piano, found
And culled a pair of fans; wherewith equipped,
Our mountaineer back to the level slipped;
And being landed, with considerate eyes,
Betwixt her elders dealt her double prize;
The small to me, the greater to her sire.
As painters now advance and now retire
Before the growing canvas, and anon
Once more approach and put the climax on:
So she awhile withdrew, her piece she viewed -
For half a moment half supposed it good -
Spied her mistake, nor sooner spied than ran
To remedy; and with the greater fan,
In gracious better thought, equipped the guest.


From ill to well, from better on to best,
Arts move; the homely, like the plastic kind;
And high ideals fired that infant mind.
Once more she backed, once more a space apart
Considered and reviewed her work of art:
Doubtful at first, and gravely yet awhile;
Till all her features blossomed in a smile.


        
        And the child, waking at the call of bliss,
To each she ran, and took and gave a kiss.








        To Sydney

NOT thine where marble-still and white
Old statues share the tempered light
And mock the uneven modern flight,
But in the stream
Of daily sorrow and delight
To seek a theme.


I too, O friend, have steeled my heart
Boldly to choose the better part,
To leave the beaten ways of art,
And wholly free
To dare, beyond the scanty chart,
The deeper sea.


All vain restrictions left behind,
Frail bark! I loose my anchored mind
And large, before the prosperous wind
Desert the strand -
A new Columbus sworn to find
The morning land.


Nor too ambitious, friend. To thee
I own my weakness. Not for me
To sing the enfranchised nations' glee,
Or count the cost
Of warships foundered far at sea
And battles lost.


High on the far-seen, sunny hills,
Morning-content my bosom fills;
Well-pleased, I trace the wandering rills
And learn their birth.
Far off, the clash of sovereign wills
May shake the earth.


The nimble circuit of the wheel,
The uncertain poise of merchant weal,
Heaven of famine, fire and steel
When nations fall;



        These, heedful, from afar I feel -
I mark them all.


But not, my friend, not these I sing,
My voice shall fill a narrower ring.
Tired souls, that flag upon the wing,
I seek to cheer:
Brave wines to strengthen hope I bring,
Life's cantineer!


Some song that shall be suppling oil
To weary muscles strained with toil,
Shall hearten for the daily moil,
Or widely read
Make sweet for him that tills the soil
His daily bread.


Such songs in my flushed hours I dream
(High thought) instead of armour gleam
Or warrior cantos ream by ream
To load the shelves -
Songs with a lilt of words, that seem
To sing themselves.








        To The Commissioners Of Northern Lights

I SEND to you, commissioners,
A paper that may please ye, sirs
(For troth they say it might be worse
An' I believe't)
And on your business lay my curse
Before I leav't.


I thocht I'd serve wi' you, sirs, yince,
But I've thocht better of it since;
The maitter I will nowise mince,
But tell ye true:
I'll service wi' some ither prince,
An' no wi' you.


I've no been very deep, ye'll think,
Cam' delicately to the brink
An' when the water gart me shrink
Straucht took the rue,
An' didna stoop my fill to drink -
I own it true.


I kent on cape and isle, a light
Burnt fair an' clearly ilka night;
But at the service I took fright,
As sune's I saw,
An' being still a neophite
Gaed straucht awa'.


Anither course I now begin,
The weeg I'll cairry for my sin,
The court my voice shall echo in,
An' - wha can tell? -
Some ither day I may be yin
O' you mysel'.








        To The Muse

Resign the rhapsody, the dream,
To men of larger reach;
Be ours the quest of a plain theme,
The piety of speech.


As monkish scribes from morning break
Toiled till the close of light,
Nor thought a day too long to make
One line or letter bright:


We also with an ardent mind,
Time, wealth, and fame forgot,
Our glory in our patience find
And skim, and skim the pot:


Till last, when round the house we hear
The evensong of birds,
One corner of blue heaven appear
In our clear well of words.


Leave, leave it then, muse of my heart!
Sans finish and sans frame,
Leave unadorned by needless art
The picture as it came.








        To What Shall I Compare Her?

TO what shall I compare her,
That is as fair as she?
For she is fairer - fairer
Than the sea.
What shall be likened to her,
The sainted of my youth?
For she is truer - truer
Than the truth.


As the stars are from the sleeper,
Her heart is hid from me;
For she is deeper - deeper
Than the sea.
Yet in my dreams I view her
Flush rosy with new ruth -
Dreams! Ah, may these prove truer
Than the truth.








        To Will H. Low

Youth now flees on feathered foot
Faint and fainter sounds the flute,
Rarer songs of gods; and still
Somewhere on the sunny hill,
Or along the winding stream,
Through the willows, flits a dream;
Flits but shows a smiling face,
Flees but with so quaint a grace,
None can choose to stay at home,
All must follow, all must roam.


This is unborn beauty: she
Now in air floats high and free,
Takes the sun and breaks the blue;--
Late with stooping pinion flew


Raking hedgerow trees, and wet
Her wing in silver streams, and set
Shining foot on temple roof:
Now again she flies aloof,
Coasting mountain clouds and kiss't
By the evening's amethyst.


In wet wood and miry lane,
Still we pant and pound in vain;
Still with leaden foot we chase
Waning pinion, fainting face;
Still with gray hair we stumble on,
Till, behold, the vision gone!
Where hath fleeting beauty led?
To the doorway of the dead.
Life is over, life was gay:
We have come the primrose way.








        To Willie And Henrietta

If two may read aright
These rhymes of old delight
And house and garden play,
You too, my cousins, and you only, may.


You in a garden green
With me were king and queen,
Were hunter, soldier, tar,
And all the thousand things that children are.


Now in the elders' seat
We rest with quiet feet,
And from the window-bay
We watch the children, our successors, play.


"Time was," the golden head
Irrevocably said;
But time which one can bind,
While flowing fast away, leaves love behind.







    
        Travel

I should like to rise and go
Where the golden apples grow;--
Where below another sky
Parrot islands anchored lie,
And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
Where in sunshine reaching out
Eastern cities, miles about,
Are with mosque and minaret
Among sandy gardens set,
And the rich goods from near and far
Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
Where the Great Wall round China goes,
And on one side the desert blows,
And with the voice and bell and drum,
Cities on the other hum;--
Where are forests hot as fire,
Wide as England, tall as a spire,
Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
And the negro hunters' huts;--
Where the knotty crocodile
Lies and blinks in the Nile,
And the red flamingo flies
Hunting fish before his eyes;--
Where in jungles near and far,
Man-devouring tigers are,
Lying close and giving ear
Lest the hunt be drawing near,
Or a comer-by be seen
Swinging in the palanquin;--
Where among the desert sands
Some deserted city stands,
All its children, sweep and prince,
Grown to manhood ages since,
Not a foot in street or house,
Not a stir of child or mouse,
And when kindly falls the night,
In all the town no spark of light.
There I'll come when I'm a man



        With a camel caravan;
Light a fire in the gloom
Of some dusty dining-room;
See the pictures on the walls,
Heroes fights and festivals;
And in a corner find the toys
Of the old Egyptian boys.








        Underwoods: Epigram

Of all my verse, like not a single line;
But like my title, for it is not mine.
That title from a better man I stole:
Ah, how much better, had I stol'n the whole.








        Variant Form Of The Preceding Poem

COME to me, all ye that labour; I will give your spirits rest;
Here apart in starry quiet I will give you rest.
Come to me, ye heavy laden, sin defiled and care opprest,
In your father's quiet mansions, soon to prove a welcome guest.
But an hour you bear your trial, sin and suffer, bleed and die;
But an hour you toil and combat here in day's inspiring eye.
See the feet of your deliverer; lo, the hour of freedom nigh.







                    
        Voluntary

HERE in the quiet eve
My thankful eyes receive
The quiet light.
I see the trees stand fair
Against the faded air,
And star by star prepare
The perfect night.


And in my bosom, lo!
Content and quiet grow
Toward perfect peace.
And now when day is done,
Brief day of wind and sun,
The pure stars, one by one,
Their troop increase.


Keen pleasure and keen grief
Give place to great relief:
Farewell my tears!
Still sounds toward me float;
I hear the bird's small note,
Sheep from the far sheepcote,
And lowing steers.


For lo! the war is done,
Lo, now the battle won,
The trumpets still.
The shepherd's slender strain,
The country sounds again
Awake in wood and plain,
On haugh and hill.


Loud wars and loud loves cease.
I welcome my release;
And hail once more
Free foot and way world-wide.
And oft at eventide
Light love to talk beside
The hostel door.



       





        Wedding Prayer

Lord, behold our family here assembled.
We thank you for this place in which we dwell,
for the love that unites us,
for the peace accorded us this day,
for the hope with which we expect the morrow,
for the health, the work, the food,
and the bright skies that make our lives delightful;
for our friends in all parts of the earth.
Amen







        
        What Man May Learn, What Man May Do

WHAT man may learn, what man may do,
Of right or wrong of false or true,
While, skipper-like, his course he steers
Through nine and twenty mingled years,
Half misconceived and half forgot,
So much I know and practise not.


Old are the words of wisdom, old
The counsels of the wise and bold:
To close the ears, to check the tongue,
To keep the pining spirit young;
To act the right, to say the true,
And to be kind whate'er you do.


Thus we across the modern stage
Follow the wise of every age;
And, as oaks grow and rivers run
Unchanged in the unchanging sun,
So the eternal march of man
Goes forth on an eternal plan.








        When The Sun Come After Rain

WHEN the sun comes after rain
And the bird is in the blue,
The girls go down the lane
Two by two.


When the sun comes after shadow
And the singing of the showers,
The girls go up the meadow,
Fair as flowers.


When the eve comes dusky red
And the moon succeeds the sun,
The girls go home to bed
One by one.


And when life draws to its even
And the day of man is past,
They shall all go home to heaven,
Home at last.








        Where Go The Boats?

Dark brown is the river,
Golden is the sand.
It flows along for ever,
With trees on either hand.


Green leaves a-floating,
Castles of the foam,
Boats of mine a-boating -
Where will all come home?


On goes the river
And out past the mill,
Away down the valley,
Away down the hill.


Away down the river,
A hundred miles or more,
Other little children
Shall bring my boats ashore.








        Whole Duty Of Children

A child should always say what's true
And speak when he is spoken to,
And behave mannerly at table;
At least as far as he is able.








        Windy Nights

Whenever the moon and stars are set,
Whenever the wind is high,
All night long in the dark and wet,
A man goes riding by.
Late in the night when the fires are out,
Why does he gallop and gallop about?
Whenever the trees are crying aloud,
And ships are tossed at sea,
By, on the highway, low and loud,
By at the gallop goes he.
By at the gallop he goes, and then
By he comes back at the gallop again.








        Winter-Time

Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.


Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.


Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit;
Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.


When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.


Black are my steps on silver sod;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding cake.








        You Looked So Tempting In The Pew

YOU looked so tempting in the pew,
You looked so sly and calm -
My trembling fingers played with yours
As both looked out the Psalm.


Your heart beat hard against my arm,
My foot to yours was set,
Your loosened ringlet burned my cheek
Whenever they two met.


O little, little we hearkened, dear,
And little, little cared,
Although the parson sermonised,
The congregation stared.








        Young Night-Thought

All night long and every night,
When my mama puts out the light,
I see the people marching by,
As plain as day before my eye.


Armies and emperor and kings,
All carrying different kinds of things,
And marching in so grand a way,
You never saw the like by day.


So fine a show was never seen
At the great circus on the green;
For every kind of beast and man
Is marching in that caravan.


As first they move a little slow,
But still the faster on they go,
And still beside me close I keep
Until we reach the town of Sleep.








        Youth And Love

To the heart of youth the world is a highwayside.
Passing for ever, he fares; and on either hand,
Deep in the gardens golden pavilions hide,
Nestle in orchard bloom, and far on the level land
Call him with lighted lamp in the eventide.


Thick as the stars at night when the moon is down,
Pleasures assail him. He to his nobler fate
Fares; and but waves a hand as he passes on,
Cries but a wayside word to her at the garden gate,
Sings but a boyish stave and his face is gone.







        




